





Network Working Group                                         J. Elliott
Request for Comments: 1399                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 1300-1399

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1300
   through RFCs 1399.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1399    Elliott      Jan 97   Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1398    Kastenholz   Jan 93   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                              Ethernet-like Interface Types

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing ehternet-like objects.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1397    Haskin       Jan 93   Default Route Advertisement In BGP2 and
                              BGP3 Versions of the Border Gateway
                              Protocol

This document speficies the recommendation of the BGP Working Group on
default route advertisement support in BGP2 [1] and BGP3 [2] versions of
the Border Gateway Protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1396    Crocker      Jan 93   The Process for Organization of Internet
                              Standards

This report provides a summary of the POISED Working Group (WG),
starting from the events leading to the formation of the WG to the end
of 1992.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard.


1395    Reynolds     Jan 93   BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions

This RFC is a slight revision and extension of RFC-1048 by Philip
Prindeville, who should be credited with the original work in this memo.
This memo will be updated as additional tags are defined.  This edition
introduces Tag 14 for Merit Dump File, Tag 15 for Domain Name, Tag 16
for Swap Server and Tag 17 for Root Path.  This memo is a status report
on the vendor information extensions used int the Bootstrap Protocol
(BOOTP).


1394    Robinson     Jan 93   Relationship of Telex Answerback Codes
                              to Internet Domains

This RFC gives the list, as best known, of all common Internet domains
and the conversion between specific country telex answerback codes and
Internet country domain identifiers.  It also lists the telex code and
international dialing code, wherever it is available.  It will also list
major Internet "Public" E-Mail addresses.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1393    Malkin       Jan 93   Traceroute Using an IP Option

This document specifies a new IP option and ICMP message type which
duplicates the functionality of the existing traceroute method while
generating fewer packets and completing in a shorter time.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1392    Malkin       Jan 93   Internet Users' Glossary

There are many networking glossaries in existence.  This glossary
concentrates on terms which are specific to the Internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1391    Malkin       Jan 93   The Tao of IETF
                              A Guide for New Attendees of the
                              Internet Engineering Task Force

The purpose of this For Your Information (FYI) RFC is to explain to the
newcomers how the IETF works.  This will give them a warm, fuzzy feeling
and enable them to make the meeting more productive for everyone.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1390    Katz         Jan 93   Transmission of IP and ARP over FDDI
                              Networks

This memo defines a method of encapsulating the Internet Protocol (IP)
datagrams and Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) requests and replies on
Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI) Networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1389    Malkin       Jan 93   RIP Version 2 MIB Extension

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1388    Malkin       Jan 93   RIP Version 2
                              Carrying Additional Information

This document specifies an extension of the Routing Information Protocol
(RIP), as defined in [1], to expand the amount of useful information
carried in RIP packets and to add a measure of security.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1387    Malkin       Jan 93   RIP Version 2 Protocol Analysis

As required by Routing Protocol Criteria (RFC 1264), this report
documents the key features of the RIP-2 protocol and the current
implementation experience.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1386    Cooper       Dec 92   The US Domain

This is a description of the US Top Level Domains on the Internet.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community. It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1385    Wang         Nov 92   EIP: The Extended Internet Protocol
                              A Framework for Maintaining Backward
                              Compatibility

EIP can substantially reduce the amount of modifications needed to the
current Internet systems and greatly ease the difficulties of
transition. This is an "idea" paper and discussion is strongly
encouraged on Big-Internet@munnari.oz.au.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1384    Barker       Jan 93   Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots

This document defines a number of naming guidelines.  Alignment to these
guidelines is recommended for directory pilots.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1383    Huitema      Dec 92   An Experiment in DNS Based IP Routing

Potential solutions to the routing explosion.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1382    Throop       Nov 92   SNMP MIB Extension for the X.25 Packet
                              Layer

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1381    Throop       Nov 92   SNMP MIB Extension for X.25 LAPB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the Link Layer of X.25,
LAPB.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1380    Gross        Nov 92    IESG Deliberations on Routing and
                               Addressing

This memo summarizes issues surrounding the routing and addressing
scaling problems in the IP architecture, and it provides a brief
background of the ROAD group and related activities in the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF).  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1379    Braden       Nov 92    Extending TCP for Transactions --
                               Concepts

This memo discusses extension of TCP to provide transaction-oriented
service, without altering its virtual-circuit operation.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1378    Parker       Nov 92    The PPP AppleTalk Control Protocol
                               (ATCP)

This document defines the NCP for establishing and configuring the
AppleTalk Protocol [3] over PPP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1377     Katz        Nov 92    The PPP OSI Network Layer Control
                               Protocol (OSINLCP)

This document defines the NCP for establishing and configuring OSI
Network Layer Protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]












Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1376    Senum         Nov 92   The PPP DECnet Phase IV Control
                               Protocol (DNCP)

This document defines the NCP for establishing and configuring Digital's
DNA Phase IV Routing protocol (DECnet Phase IV) over PPP.  This document
applies only to DNA Phase IV Routing messages (both data and control),
and not to other DNA Phase IV protocols (MOP, LAT, etc.).  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1375    Robinson      Oct 92   Suggestion for New Classes of IP
                               Addresses

This RFC suggests a change in the method of specifying the IP address to
add new classes of networks to be called F, G, H, and K, to reduce the
amount of wasted address space, and to increase the available IP address
number space, especially for smaller organizations or classes of
connectors that do not need or do not want a full Class C IP address.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1374    Renwick       Oct 92   IP and ARP on HIPPI

The ANSI X3T9.3 committee has drafted a proposal for the encapsulation
of IEEE 802.2 LLC PDUs and, by implication, IP on HIPPI.  Another X3T9.3
draft describes the operation of HIPPI physical switches.  X3T9.3 chose
to leave HIPPI networking issues largely outside the scope of their
standards; this document discusses methods of using of ANSI standard
HIPPI hardware and protocols in the context of the Internet, including
the use of HIPPI switches as LANs and interoperation with other
networks.  This memo is intended to become an Internet Standard.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1373    Tignor        Oct 92   PORTABLE DUAs

This document comes in two parts. The first part is for regular people
who wish to set up their own DUAs (Directory User Interfaces) to access
the Directory.  The second part is for ISODE-maintainers wishing to
provide portable DUAs to users. This part gives instructions in a
similar but longer, step-by-step format.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.








Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1372    Hedrick       Oct 92   Telnet Remote Flow Control Option

This document specifies an extended version of the Telnet Remote Flow
Control Option, RFC 1080, with the addition of the RESTART-ANY and
RESTART-XON suboptions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1371    Gross         Oct 92   Choosing a "Common IGP" for the IP
                               Internet
                               (The IESG's Recommendation to the IAB)

This memo presents motivation, rationale and other surrounding
background information leading to the IESG's recommendation to the IAB
for a single "common IGP" for the IP portions of the Internet.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1370    I.A.B.        Oct 92   Applicability Statement for OSPF

This Applicability Statement places a requirement on vendors claiming
conformance to this standard, in order to assure that users will have
the option of deploying OSPF when they need a multivendor, interoperable
IGP in their environment.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1369    Kastenholz    Oct 92   Implementation Notes and Experience for
                               The Internet Ethernet MIB

This document reflects the currently known status of 11 different
implementations of the MIB by 7 different vendors on 7 different
Ethernet interface chips.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1368    McMaster      Oct 92   Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE
                               802.3 Repeater Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing IEEE 802.3 10 Mb/second
baseband repeaters, sometimes referred to as "hubs".  [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1367    Topolcic      Oct 92   Schedule for IP Address Space
                               Management Guidelines

This memo suggests a schedule for the implementation of the IP network
number allocation plan described in RFC 1366.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1366    Gerich        Oct 92   Guidelines for Management of IP Address
                               Space

This document has been reviewed by the Federal Engineering Task Force
(FEPG) on behalf of the Federal Networking Council (FNC), the co-chairs
of the International Engineering Planning Group (IEPG), and the Reseaux
IP Europeens (RIPE).  There was general consensus by those groups to
support the recommendations proposed in this document for management of
the IP address space.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1365    Siyan         Spt 92   An IP Address Extension Proposal

This RFC suggests an extension to the IP protocol to solve the shortage
of IP address problem, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1364    Varadhan      Spt 92   BGP OSPF Interaction

This memo defines the various criteria to be used when designing
Autonomous System Border Routers (ASBR) that will run BGP with other
ASBRs external to the AS and OSPF as its IGP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1363    Partridge     Spt 92   A Proposed Flow Specification

The flow specification defined in this memo is intended for information
and possible experimentation (i.e., experimental use by consenting
routers and applications only).  This RFC is a product of the Internet
Research Task Force (IRTF).  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.








Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1362    Allen         Spt 92   Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media
                               (IPXWAN)

This document describes how Novell IPX operates over various WAN media.
Specifically, it describes the common "IPX WAN" protocol Novell uses to
exchange necessary router to router information prior to exchanging
standard IPX routing information and traffic over WAN datalinks.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1361    Mills         Aug 92   Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP)

This memorandum describes the Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP), which
is an adaptation of the Network Time Protocol (NTP) used to synchronize
computer clocks in the Internet.  This memorandum does not obsolete or
update any RFC.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1360    I.A.B.        Spt 92   IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

Discussion of the standardization process and the RFC document series is
presented first, followed by an explanation of the terms.  Sections 6.2
- 6.9 contain the lists of protocols in each stage of standardization.
Finally come pointers to references and contacts for further
information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1359    ACM SIGUCCS   Aug 92   Connecting to the Internet
                               What Connecting Institutions Should
                               Anticipate

This FYI RFC outlines the major issues an institution should consider in
the decision and implementation of a campus connection to the Internet.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1358    Chapin        Aug 92   Charter of the Internet Architecture
                               Board (IAB)

The Internet Architecture Board (IAB) shall be constituted and shall
operate as a technical advisory group of the Internet Society.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.





Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1357    Cohen         Jul 92   A Format for E-mailing Bibliographic
                               Records

This memo defines a format for E-mailing bibliographic records of
technical reports.  It is intended to accelerate the dissemination of
information about new Computer Science Technical Reports (CS-TR).  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1356    Malis         Aug 92   Multiprotocol Interconnect
                               on X.25 and ISDN in the Packet Mode

This document specifies the encapsulation of IP and other network layer
protocols over X.25 networks, in accordance and alignment with ISO/IEC
and CCITT standards.  It is a replacement for RFC 877, "A Standard for
the Transmission of IP Datagrams Over Public Data Networks" [1].
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1355    Curran        Aug 92   Privacy and Accuracy Issues in Network
                               Information Center Databases

This document provides a set of guidelines for the administration and
operation of public Network Information Center (NIC) databases.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1354    Baker         Jul 92   IP Forwarding Table MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing routes in the IP Internet.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1353    McCloghrie    Jul 92   Definitions of Managed Objects
                               for Administration of SNMP Parties

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it describes a representation of the SNMP parties defined in
[8] as objects defined according to the Internet Standard SMI [1].
[STANDARDS-TRACK]






Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1352    Galvin        Jul 92   SNMP Security Protocols

The Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) specification [1] allows
for the protection of network management operations by a variety of
security protocols.  The SNMP administrative model described in [2]
provides a framework for securing SNMP network management. In the
context of that framework, this memo defines protocols to support the
following three security services: data integrity, data origin
authentication and data confidentiality.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1351    Davin         Jul 92   SNMP Administrative Model

This memo presents an elaboration of the SNMP administrative model set
forth in [1]. This model provides a unified conceptual basis for
administering SNMP protocol entities to support: authenticaiton and
integrity, privacy, access control, and cooperation of protocol
entities.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1350    Sollins       Jul 92   THE TFTP PROTOCOL (REVISION 2)

TFTP is a very simple protocol used to transfer files.  It is from this
that its name comes, Trivial File Transfer Protocol or TFTP.  Each
nonterminal packet is acknowledged separately.  This document describes
the protocol and its types of packets.  The document also explains the
reasons behind some of the design decisions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1349   Almquist       Jul 92   Type of Service in the Internet
                               Protocol Suite

This memo changes and clarifies some aspects of the semantics of the
Type of Service octet in the Internet Protocol (IP) header.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1348    Manning       Jul 92   DNS NSAP RRs

This RFC defines the format of two new Resource Records (RRs) for the
Domain Name System (DNS), and reserves corresponding DNS type mnemonic
and numerical codes.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1347    Callon        Jun 92   TCP and UDP with bigger Addresses
                               (TUBA), A Simple Proposal for Internet
                               Addressing and Routing

This paper describes a simple proposal which provides a long-term
solution to Internet addressing, routing, and scaling.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community. It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1346    Jones         Jun 92   Resource Allocation, Control, and
                               Accounting for the Use of Network
                               Resources

The purpose of this RFC is to focus discussion on particular challenges
in large service networks in general, and the International IP Internet
in particular.  No solution discussed in this document is intended as a
standard.  Rather, it is hoped that a general consensus will emerge as
to the appropriate solutions, leading eventually to the adoption of
standards.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.


1345    Simonsen      Jun 92   Character Mnemonics & Character Sets

This memo lists a selection of characters and their presence in some
coded character sets.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1344   Borenstein     Jun 92   Implicaitons of MIME for Internet Mail
                               Gateways

While MIME was carefully designed so that it does not require any
changes to Internet electronic message transport facilities, there are
several ways in which message transport systems may want to take
advantage of MIME.  These opportunities are the subject of this memo.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1343    Borenstein     Jun 92   A User Agent Configuration Mechanism
                                For Multimedia Mial Format Information

This memo suggests a file format to be used to inform multiple mail
reading user agent programs about the locally-installed facilities for
handling mail in various formats.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.



Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1342    Moore          Jun 92   Representation of Non-ASCII Text in
                                Internet Message Headers

This memo describes an extension to the message format defined in [1]
(known to the IETF Mail Extensions Working Group as "RFC 1341"), to
allow the representation of character sets other than ASCII in RFC 822
message headers.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1341    Borenstein     Jun 92   MIME: Mechanisms for Specifying and
                                Describing the Format of Internet
                                Message Bodies

This document redefines the format of message bodies to allow multi-part
textual and non-textual message bodies to be represented and exchanged
without loss of information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1340    Reynolds       Jul 92   ASSIGNED NUMBERS

This Network Working Group Request for Comments documents the currently
assigned values from several series of numbers used in network protocol
implementations. This memo is a status report on the parameters (i.e.,
numbers and keywords) used in protocols in the Internet community.


1339    Dorner         Jun 92   Remote Mail Checking Protocol

This RFC defines a protocol to provide a mail checking service to be
used between a client and server pair. Typically, a small program on a
client workstation would use the protocol to query a server in order to
find out whether new mail has arrived for a specified user.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1338    Fuller         Jun 92   Supernetting: an Address Assignment
                                and Aggregation Strategy

This memo discusses strategies for address assignment of the existing IP
address space with a view to conserve the address space and stem the
explosive growth of routing tables in default-route-free routers run by
transit routing domain providers.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet standard.








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1337    Braden         May 92   TIME-WAIT Assassination Hazards in TCP

This note describes some theoretically-possible failure modes for TCP
connections and discusses possible remedies.  In particular, one very
simple fix is identified.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1336    Malkin         May 92   Who's Who in the Internet
                                Biographies of IAB, IESG and
                                IRSG Members

This FYI RFC contains biographical information about members of the
Internet Activities Board (IAB), the Internet Engineering Steering Group
(IESG) of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), and the the
Internet Research Steering Group (IRSG) of the Internet Research Task
Force (IRTF).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify any standard.


1335    Wang           May 92   A Two-Tier Address Structure for the
                                Internet:  A Solution to the Problem
                                of Address Space Exhaustion

This RFC presents a solution to problem of address space exhaustion in
the Internet.  It proposes a two-tier address structure for the
Internet.  This is an "idea" paper and discussion is strongly
encouraged.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.


1334    Lloyd          Oct 92   PPP Authentication Protocols

This document defines two protocols for Authentication: the Password
Authentication Protocol and the Challenge-Handshake Authentication
Protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1333    Simpson        May 92   PPP Link Quality Monitoring

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) [1] provides a standard method of
encapsulating Network Layer protocol information over point-to-point
links.  PPP also defines an extensible Link Control Protocol, which
allows negotiation of a Quality Protocol for continuous monitoring of
the viability of the link.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]






Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1332    McGregor       May 92   The PPP Internet Protocol Control
                                Protocol (IPCP)

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) [1] provides a standard method of
encapsulating Network Layer protocol information over point-to-point
links.  PPP also defines an extensible Link Control Protocol, and
proposes a family of Network Control Protocols (NCPs) for establishing
and configuring different network-layer protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1331    Simpson        May 92   The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP>
                                for the Transmission of Multi-protocol
                                Datagrams over Point-to-Point Links

This document defines the PPP encapsulation scheme, together with the
PPP Link Control Protocol (LCP), an extensible option negotiation
protocol which is able to negotiate a rich assortment of configuration
parameters and provides additional management functions.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1330    E.S.C.C.       May 92   Recommendations for the Phase I
                                Deployment of OSI Directory Services
                                (X.500) and OSI Message Handling
                                Services <X.400) within the ESnet
                                Community

This RFC is a near verbatim copy of the whitepaper produced by the ESnet
Site Coordinating Committee's X.500/X.400 Task Force.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1329    Kuehn          May 92   Thoughts on Address Resolution for
                                Dual MAC FDDI Networks

In this document an idea is submitted how IP and ARP can be used on
inhomogeneous FDDI networks (FDDI networks with single MAC and dual MAC
stations) by introducing a new protocol layer in the protocol suite of
the dual MAC stations.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.










Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1328    Kille          May 92   X.400 1988 to 1984 downgrading

This document considers issues of downgrading from X.400(1988) to
X.400(1984) [MHS88a, MHS84].  Annexe B of X.419 specifies some
downgrading rules [MHS88b], but these are not sufficient for provision
of service in an environment containing both 1984 and 1988 components.
This document defines a number of extensions to this annexe.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1327    Kille          May 92   Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO
                                10021 and RFC 822

This document specifies a mapping between two protocols.  This
specification should be used when this mapping is performed on the DARPA
Internet or in the UK Academic Community.  This specification may be
modified in the light of implementation experience, but no substantial
changes are expected.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1326    Tsuchiya       May 92   Mutual Encapsulation Considered
                                Dangerous

This memo describes a packet explosion problem that can occur with
mutual encapsulation of protocols (A encapsulates B and B encapsulates
A).  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does
not specify an Internet standard.


1325    Malkin         May 92   FYI on Questions and Answers
                                Answers to Commonly asked "New
                                Internet User" Questions

This FYI RFC is one of two FYI's called, "Questions and Answers" (Q/A),
produced by the User Services Working Group of the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF).  The goal is to document the most commonly asked
questions and answers in the Internet.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.













Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1324    Reed           May 92   A Discussion on Computer Network
                                Conferencing

This memo is intended to make more people aware of the present
developments in the Computer Conferencing field as well as put forward
ideas on what should be done to formalize this work so that there is a
common standard for programmers and others who are involved in this
field to work with.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1323    Jacobson       May 92   TCP Extensions for High Performance

This memo presents a set of TCP extensions to improve performance over
large bandwidth*delay product paths and to provide reliable operation
over very high-speed paths.  It defines new TCP options for scaled
windows and timestamps, which are designed to provide compatible
interworking with TCP's that do not implement the extensions.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1322    Estrin         May 92   A Unified Approach to Inter-Domain
                                Routing

This memo is an informational RFC which outlines one potential approach
for inter-domain routing in future global internets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1321    Rivest         Apr 92   The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm

This document describes the MD5 message-digest algorithm. The algorithm
takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as output a
128-bit "fingerprint" or "message digest" of the input.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1320    Rivest         Apr 92   The MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm

This document describes the MD4 message-digest algorithm [1]. The
algorithm takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as
output a 128-bit "fingerprint" or "message digest" of the input.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.





Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1319    Kaliski        Apr 92   The MD2 Message-Digest Algorithm

This document describes the MD2 message-digest algorithm. The algorithm
takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as output a
128-bit "fingerprint" or "message digest" of the input.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1318    Stewart        Apr 92   Definitions of Managed Objects
                                for Parallel-printer-like Hardware
                                Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of parallel-printer-
like devices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1317    Stewart        Apr 92   Definitions of Managed Objects for
                                RS-232-like Hardware Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of RS-232-like
devices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1316    Stewart        Apr 92   Definitions of Managed Objects
                                for Character Stream Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular it defines objects for the management of character stream
devices. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1315    Brown          Apr 92   Management Information Base for Frame
                                Relay DTEs

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing Frame Relay.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1314    Katz           Apr 92   A File Format for the Exchange of
                                Images in the Internet

This document defines a standard file format for the exchange of fax-
like black and white images within the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1313    Partridge      Apr 92   Today's Programming for KRFC AM 1313
                                Internet Talk Radio

Hi and welcome to KRFC Internet Talk Radio, your place on the AM dial
for lively talk and just-breaking news on internetworking.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1312    Nelson         Apr 92   Message Send Protocol 2

The Message Send Protocol is used to send a short message to a given
user on a given terminal on a given host.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1311    Postel         Mar 92   Introduction to the STD Notes

The STDs are a subseries of notes within the RFC series that are the
Internet standards.  The intent is to identify clearly for the Internet
community those RFCs which document Internet standards.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1310    I.A.B.         Mar 92   The Internet Standards Process

This memo documents the process currently used for the standardization
of Internet protocols and procedures.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1309    Weider         Mar 92   Technical Overview of Directory
                                Services Using the X.500 Protocol

This document is an overview of the X.500 standard for people not
familiar with the technology. It compares and contrasts Directory
Services based on X.500 with several of the other Directory services
currently in use in the Internet. This paper also describes the status
of the standard and provides references for further information on X.500
implementations and technical information.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet
standard.



Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1308    Weider         Mar 92   Executive Introduction to Directory
                                Services Using the X.500 Protocol

This document is an Executive Introduction to Directory Services using
the X.500 protocol. It briefly discusses the deficiencies in currently
deployed Internet Directory Services, and then illustrates the solutions
provided by X.500.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community. It does not specify an Internet standard.


1307    Young          Mar 92   Dynamically Switched Link Control
                                Protocol

This memo describes an experimental protocol developed by a project team
at Cray Research, Inc., in implementing support for circuit-switched T3
services.  The protocol is used for the control of network connections
external to a host, but known to the host.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1306    Nicholson      Mar 92   Experiences Supporting By-Request
                                Circuit-Switched T3 Networks

This memo describes the experiences of a project team at Cray Research,
Inc., in implementing support for circuit-switched T3 services.  While
the issues discussed may not be directly relevant to the research
problems of the Internet, they may be interesting to a number of
researchers and implementers.  This RFC provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1305   Mills           Mar 92   Network Time Protocol (Version 3):
                                Specification, Implementation and
                                Analysis

This document describes the Network Time Protocol (NTP), specifies its
formal structure and summarizes information useful for its
implementation.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1304    Cox            Feb 92   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                                SIP Interface Type

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing SIP (SMDS Interface
Protocol) objects.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


1303    McCloghrie     Feb 92   A Convention for Describing SNMP-based
                                Agents

This memo suggests a straight-forward approach towards describing SNMP-
based agents.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1302    Sitzler        Feb 92   Building a Network Information
                                Services Infrastructure

This FYI RFC document is intended for existing Internet Network
Information Center (NIC) personnel, people interested in establishing a
new NIC, Internet Network Operations Centers (NOCs), and funding
agencies interested in contributing to user support facilities.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1301    Armstrong      Feb 92   Multicast Transport Protocol

This memo describes a protocol for reliable transport that utilizes the
multicast capability of applicable lower layer networking architectures.
The transport definition permits an arbitrary number of transport
providers to perform realtime collaborations without requiring
networking clients (aka, applications) to possess detailed knowledge of
the population or geographical dispersion of the participating members.
It is not network architectural specific, but does implicitly require
some form of multicasting (or broadcasting) at the data link level, as
well as some means of communicating that capability up through the
layers to the transport.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1300    Greenfield     Feb 92   Remembrances of Things Past

Poem.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard.













Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 1399                  Summary of 1300-1399              January 1997


Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Josh Elliott
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: elliott@isi.edu




































Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 22]

