





Network Working Group                                         M. Kennedy
Request for Comments: 1799                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 1700-1799

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1700
   through RFCs 1799.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1799    Kennedy     Jan 97     Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1798    Young       Jun 95      Connection-less Lightweight X.500
                                Directory Access Protocol

The protocol described in this document is designed to provide access to
the Directory while not incurring the resource requirements of the
Directory Access Protocol (DAP). [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1797    IANA        Apr 95      Class A Subnet Experiment

There appears to be some interest in experimenting with subnetting the
class A addresses. It is suggested that conducting an experiment now to
identify and fix any software that does not properly handle subnetted
class A addresses would be useful and important. This document defines
an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1796    Huitema     Apr 95      Not All RFCs are Standards

This document discusses the relationship of the Request for Comments
(RFCs) notes to Internet Standards. This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1795     Wells      Apr 95      Data Link Switching: Switch-to-Switch
                                Protocol
                                AIW DLSw RIG: DLSw Closed Pages, DLSw
                                Standard Version 1.0

This RFC describes use of Data Link Switching over TCP/IP. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1794     Brisco     Apr 95     DNS Support for Load Balancing

This RFC is meant to first chronicle a foray into the IETF DNS Working
Group, discuss other possible alternatives to provide/simulate load
balancing support for DNS, and to provide an ultimate, flexible solution
for providing DNS support for balancing loads of many types. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1793     Moy         Apr 95    Extending OSPF to Support Demand Circuits

This memo defines enhancements to the OSPF protocol that allow efficient
operation over "demand circuits". [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1792     Sung        Apr 95    TCP/IPX Connection Mib Specification

New MIB objects, tcpIpxConnTable, udpIpxTable, tcpUnspecConnTable and
udpUnspecTable are presented in this paper, to be used in place of
tcpConnTable and udpListenerTable when TCP and UDP are running over IPX.
This document defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.  This does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1791     Sung        Apr 95    TCP And UDP Over IPX Networks With
                               Fixed Path MTU

TCP/IPX allows TCP/IP applications to run over IPX networks by letting
TCP and UDP run over IPX.  And this memo specifies the packet format and
operational procedures for running TCP and UDP over IPX. This document
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1790    Cerf         Apr 95    An Agreement between the Internet
                               Society and Sun Microsystems, Inc.
                               in the Matter of ONC RPC and XDR
                               Protocols

This RFC is an official public record of an agreement between SUN
Microsystems and the Internet Society.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1789    Yang        Apr 95     INETPhone: Telephone Services and
                               Servers on Internet

This RFC presents a true telephone service, called INETPhone, which
supports voice communication through the Internet. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1788    Simpson     Apr 95     ICMP Domain Name Messages

This document specifies ICMP messages for learning the Fully Qualified
Domain Name associated with an IP address. This document defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This does not specify
an Internet standard of any kind.






Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1787    Rekhter    Apr 95     Routing in a Multi-provider Internet

This document presents some of the issues related to network layer
routing in a multi-provider Internet, and specifically to the unicast
routing. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1786    Bates      Mar 95     Representation of IP Routing Policies

This document is an update to the original `ripe-81' proposal for
representing and storing routing polices within the RIPE database. It
incorporates several extensions proposed by Merit Inc. and gives details
of a generalized IP routing policy representation to be used by all
Internet routing registries.  It acts as both tutorial and provides
details of database objects and attributes that use and make up a
routing registry. This memo provides information for the Internet
community. This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1785    Malkin     Mar 95     TFTP Option Negotiation Analysis

This document was written to allay concerns that the presence of options
in a TFTP Request packet might cause pathological behavior on servers
which do not support TFTP option negotiation. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1784    Malkin     Mar 95    TFTP Timeout Interval and Transfer
                             Size Options

This document describes two TFTP options. The first allows the client
and server to negotiate the Timeout Interval.  The second allows the
side receiving the file to determine the ultimate size of the transfer
before it begins. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1783    Malkin     Mar 95    TFTP Blocksize Option

This document describes a TFTP option which allows the client and server
to negotiate a blocksize more applicable to the network medium.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]








Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1782    Malkin     Mar 95    TFTP Option Extension

The Trivial File Transfer Protocol is a simple, lock-step, file transfer
protocol which allows a client to get or put a file onto a remote host.
This document describes a simple extension to TFTP to allow option
negotiation prior to the file transfer.


1781    Kille     Mar 95    Using the OSI Directory to Achieve
                            User Friendly Naming

This proposal sets out some conventions for representing names in a
friendly manner, and shows how this can be used to achieve really
friendly naming. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1780   IAB       Mar 95    Internet Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1779   Kille     Mar 95     A String Representation of Distinguished
                            Names

The OSI Directory uses distinguished names as the primary keys to
entries in the directory.  Distinguished Names are encoded in ASN.1.
When a distinguished name is communicated between to users not using a
directory protocol (e.g., in a mail message), there is a need to have a
user-oriented string representation of distinguished name. This
specification defines a string format for representing names, which is
designed to give a clean representation of commonly used names, whilst
being able to represent any distinguished name. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1778   Howes    Mar 95     The String Representation of Standard
                           Attribute Syntaxes

The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) requires that the
contents of AttributeValue fields in protocol elements be octet strings.
This document defines the requirements that must be satisfied by
encoding rules used to render X.500 Directory attribute syntaxes into a
form suitable for use in the LDAP, then goes on to define the encoding
rules for the standard set of attribute syntaxes.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]






Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1777   Yeong     Mar 95     Lightweight Directory Access Protocol

The protocol described in this document is designed to provide access to
the X.500 Directory while not incurring the resource requirements of the
Directory Access Protocol (DAP).This protocol is specifically targeted
at simple management applications and browser applications that provide
simple read/write interactive access to the X.500 Directory, and is
intended to be a complement to the DAP itself.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1776   Crocker   Apr 95     The Address is the Message

Declaring that the address is the message, the IPng WG has selected a
packet format which includes 1696 bytes of address space. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1775   Crocker   Mar 95    To Be "On" the Internet

The Internet permits different levels of access for consumers and
providers of service.  The nature of those differences is quite
important in the capabilities They afford.  Hence, it is appropriate to
provide terminology that distinguishes among the range, so that the
Internet community can gain some clarity when distinguishing whether a
user (or an organization) is "on" the Internet.  This document suggests
four terms, for distinguishing the major classes of access. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1774   Traina   Mar 95    BGP-4 Protocol Analysis

The purpose of this report is to document how the requirements for
advancing a routing protocol to Draft Standard have been satisfied by
the Border Gateway Protocol version 4 (BGP-4). This report summarizes
the key features of BGP, and analyzes the protocol with respect to
scaling and performance. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.












Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1773    Traina  Mar 95   Experience with the BGP-4 protocol

The purpose of this memo is to document how the requirements for
advancing a routing protocol to Draft Standard have been satisfied by
Border Gateway Protocol version 4 (BGP-4).  This report documents
experience with BGP. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1772   Rekhter  Mar 95   Application of the Border Gateway
                         Protocol in the Internet


This document, together with its companion document, "A Border Gateway
Protocol 4 (BGP-4)", define an inter-autonomous system routing protocol
for the Internet. This document describes the usage of the BGP in the
Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1771   Rekhter  Mar 95   A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)

This document, together with its companion document, "Application of the
Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet", define an inter-autonomous
system routing protocol for the Internet. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1770   Graff   Mar 95   IPv4 Option for Sender Directed
                        Multi-Destination Delivery

This memo defines an IPv4 option to provide a sender directed multi-
destination delivery mechanism called Selective Directed Broadcast Mode
(SDBM). This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1769   Mills   Mar 95   Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP)

This memorandum describes the Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP), which
is an adaptation of the Network Time Protocol (NTP) used to synchronize
computer clocks in the Internet. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.









Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1768   Marlow  Mar 95   Host Group Extensions for CLNP Multicasting

This memo provides a specification for multicast extensions to the CLNP
protocol similar to those provided to IP by RFC1112. This memo defines
an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1767   Crocker  Mar 95   MIME Encapsulation of EDI Objects

Since there are many different EDI specifications, the current document
defines three distinct categories as three different MIME content-types.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1766   Alvestrand Mar 95  Tags for the Identification of Languages

This document describes a language tag for use in cases where it is
desired to indicate the language used in an information object.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1765   Moy       Mar 95   OSPF Database Overflow

This memo details a way of gracefully handling unanticipated database
overflows. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1764   Senum     Mar 95   The PPP XNS IDP Control Protocol (XNSCP)

This document defines the Network Control Protocol for establishing and
configuring the Xerox Network Systems (XNS) Internet Datagram Protocol
(IDP) over PPP. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1763   Senum     Mar 95   The PPP Banyan Vines Control Protocol (BVCP)

This document defines the Network Control Protocol for establishing and
configuring the Banyan VINES protocol over PPP. [STANDARDS-TRACK]











Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1762   Senum     Mar 95   The PPP DECnet Phase IV Control Protocol
                          (DNCP)

This document defines the NCP for establishing and configuring Digital's
DNA Phase IV Routing protocol (DECnet Phase IV) over PPP.  This document
applies only to DNA Phase IV Routing messages (both data and control),
and not to other DNA Phase IV protocols (MOP, LAT, etc). [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1761   Callaghan  Feb 95  Snoop Version 2 Packet Capture File Format

This paper describes the file format used by "snoop", a packet
monitoring and capture program developed by Sun.  This paper is provided
so that people can write compatible programs to generate and interpret
snoop packet capture files. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1760   Haller     Feb 95  The S/KEY One-Time Password System

This document describes the S/KEY* One-Time Password system as released
for public use by Bellcore. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1759   Smith      Mar 95  Printer MIB

A printer is the physical device that takes media from an input source,
produces marks on that media according to some page description or page
control language and puts the result in some output destination,
possibly with finishing applied. The information needed in the
management of the physical printer and the management of a printing job
overlap highly and many of the tasks in each management area require the
same or similar information. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1758   N.A.D.F.   Feb 95    NADF Standing Documents: A Brief Overview

The purpose of this document is to provide a brief overview of the
NADF's Standing Document series. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.






Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1757   Waldbusser Feb 95   Remote Network Monitoring Management
                           Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing remote network monitoring
devices. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1756    Rinne     Jan 95   REMOTE WRITE PROTOCOL - VERSION 1.0

This document describes a simple Remote Write Protocol (RWP). This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1755    Perez     Feb 95   ATM Signaling Support for IP over ATM

This memo describes the ATM call control signaling exchanges needed to
support Classical IP over ATM implementations as described in RFC 1577.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1754    Laubach   Jan 95   IP over ATM Working Group's
                           Recommendations for the ATM Forum's
                           Multiprotocol BOF
                           Version 1

This document represents an initial list of requirements submitted to
the ATM Forum's Multiprotocol BOF for the operation of IP over ATM
networks as determined by the IETF IP over ATM Working Group and other
working groups. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1753     Chiappa   Dec 94   IPng Technical Requirements
                            Of the Nimrod Routing and Addressing
                            Architecture

This document presents the requirements that the Nimrod routing and
addressing architecture has upon the internetwork layer protocol. To be
most useful to Nimrod, any protocol selected as the IPng should satisfy
these requirements. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.







Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1752     Bradner   Jan 95   The Recommendation for the IP Next
                            Generation Protocol

This document presents the recommendation of the IPng Area Directors on
what should be used to replace the current version of the Internet
Protocol. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1751     McDonald   Dec 94   A Convention for Human-Readable 128-bit
                             Keys

This memo proposes a convention for use with Internet applications &
protocols using 128-bit cryptographic keys. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1750     Eastlake    Dec 94  Randomness Recommendations for Security

Choosing random quantities to foil a resourceful and motivated adversary
is surprisingly difficult.  This paper points out many pitfalls in using
traditional pseudo-random number generation techniques for choosing such
quantities.  It recommends the use of truly random hardware techniques
and shows that the existing hardware on many systems can be used for
this purpose. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1749   McCloghrie    Dec 94   IEEE 802.5 Station Source Routing MIB
                              using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used by IEEE 802.5 end-stations
for managing source routes on a Token Ring network where IEEE source-
routing is in use. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1748   McCloghrie    Dec 94   IEEE 802.5 MIB using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing subnetworks
which use the IEEE 802.5 Token Ring technology described in 802.5 Token
Ring Access Method and Physical Layer Specifications, IEEE Standard
802.5-1989. [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1747   Hilgeman     Jan 95   Definitions of Managed Objects for SNA
                             Data Link Control (SDLC) using SMIv2

This specification defines an extension to the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with SNMP-based network management.  In particular,
it defines objects for managing the configuration, monitoring and
control of data link controls in an SNA environment. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1746   Manning      Dec 94   Ways to Define User Expectations

This paper covers basic fundamentals that must be understood when one
defines, interprets, or implements methods to control user expectations
on or over the Internet. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1745    Varadhan     Dec 94   BGP4/IDRP for IP---OSPF Interaction

This memo defines the various criteria to be used when designing an
Autonomous System Border Router (ASBR) that will run either BGP4 or IDRP
for IP with other ASBRs external to the AS and OSPF as its IGP.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1744     Huston      Dec 94   Observations on the Management of
                              the Internet Address Space

This memo examines some of the issues associated with the current
management practices of the Internet IPv4 address space, and examines
the potential outcomes of these practices as the unallocated address
pool shrinks in size. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1743     McCloghrie  Dec 94    IEEE 802.5 MIB using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing subnetworks
which use the IEEE 802.5 Token Ring technology described in 802.5 Token
Ring Access Method and Physical Layer Specifications, IEEE Standard
802.5-1989. [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1742     Waldbusser  Jan 95    AppleTalk Management Information Base II

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing AppleTalk networks.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1741     Falstrom     Dec 94  MIME Content Type for BinHex Encoded Files

This memo describes the format to use when sending BinHex4.0 files via
MIME [BORE93]. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1740     Falstron     Dec 94   MIME Encapsulation of Macintosh Files -
                               MacMIME

This memo describes the format to use when sending Apple Macintosh files
via MIME [BORE93]. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1739     Kessler       Dec 94   A Primer On Internet and TCP/IP Tools

This memo is an introductory guide to some of the TCP/IP and Internet
tools and utilities that allow users to access the wide variety of
information on the network, from determining if a particular host is up
to viewing a multimedia thesis on foreign policy. It also describes
discussion lists accessible from the Internet, ways to obtain Internet
documents, and resources that help users weave their way through the
Internet. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1738     Berners-Lee   Dec 94   Uniform Resource Locators (URL)

This document specifies a Uniform Resource Locator (URL), the syntax and
semantics of formalized information for location and access of resources
via the Internet. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1737     Sollins       Dec 94   Functional Requirements for Uniform
                                Resource Names

This document specifies a minimum set of requirements for a kind of
Internet resource identifier known as Uniform Resource Names (URNs).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.



Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1736     Kunze        Feb 95    Functional Recommendations for
                                Internet Resource Locators

This document specifies a minimum set of requirements for Internet
resource locators, which convey location and access information for
resources. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1735     Heinanen     Dec 94    NBMA Address Resolution Protocol (NARP)

This document describes the NBMA Address Resolution Protocol (NARP).
NARP can be used by a source terminal (host or router) connected to a
Non-Broadcast, Multi-Access link layer (NBMA) network to find out the
NBMA addresses of the a destination terminal provided that the
destination terminal is connected to the same NBMA network. This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1734     Myers        Dec 94   POP3 AUTHentication command

This document describes the optional AUTH command, for indicating an
authentication mechanism to the server, performing an authentication
protocol exchange, and optionally negotiating a protection mechanism for
subsequent protocol interactions. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1733     Crispin      Dec 94   Distributed Electronic Mail
                               Models in IMAP4


There are three fundamental models of client/server email: offline,
online, and disconnected use.  IMAP4 can be used in any one of these
three models.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community. This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1732     Crispin      Dec 94   IMAP4 COMPATIBILITY WITH IMAP2
                               AND IMAP2BIS

This is a summary of hints and recommendations to enable an IMAP4
implementation to interoperate with implementations that conform to
earlier specifications. This memo provides information for the Internet
community. This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.






Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1731    Myers         Dec 94   IMAP4 Authentication Mechanisms

The Internet Message Access Protocol, Version 4 [IMAP4] contains the
AUTHENTICATE command, for identifying and authenticating a user to an
IMAP4 server and for optionally negotiating a protection mechanism for
subsequent protocol interactions.  This document describes several
authentication mechanisms for use by the IMAP4 AUTHENTICATE command.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1730    Crispin       Dec 94   Internet Message Access Protocol
                               - Version 4

The Internet Message Access Protocol, Version 4 (IMAP4) allows a client
to access and manipulate electronic mail messages on a server. IMAP4
permits manipulation of remote message folders, called "mailboxes", in a
way that is functionally equivalent to local mailboxes.  IMAP4 also
provides the capability for an offline client to resynchronize with the
server. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1729    Lynch        Dec 94    Using the Z39.50 Information
                               Retrieval Protocol in the Internet
                               Environment

This memo describes an approach to the implementation of the ANSI/NISO
Z39.50-1992 Standard for Information Retrieval in the TCP/IP environment
which is currently in wide use by the Z39.50 implementor community. This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1728    Weider      Dec 94    Resource Transponders

This paper describes an automatic mechanism, the resource transponder,
for maintaining resource location information.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1727    Weider      Dec 94    A Vision of an Integrated Internet
                              Information Service

This paper lays out a vision of how Internet information services might
be integrated over the next few years, and discusses in some detail what
steps will be needed to achieve this integration. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.



Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1726    Partridge   Dec 94   Technical Criteria for Choosing
                             IP The Next Generation (IPng)

This RFC specifies criteria related to mobility for consideration in
design and selection of the Next Generation of IP. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1725    Myers       Nov 94   Post Office Protocol - Version 3

This memo is a revision to RFC 1460, a Draft Standard. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1724    Malkin      Nov 94   RIP Version 2 MIB Extension

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing RIP Version 2.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1723    Malkin     Nov 94    RIP Version 2
                             Carrying Additional Information

This document specifies an extension of the Routing Information Protocol
(RIP), o expand the amount of useful information carried in RIP messages
and to add a measure of security.  This memo obsoletes RFC 1388, which
specifies an update to the "Routing Information Protocol" STD 34, RFC
1058. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1722    Malkin     Nov 94    RIP Version 2 Protocol Applicability
                             Statement

As required by Routing Protocol Criteria (RFC 1264), this report defines
the applicability of the RIP-2 protocol within the Internet.  This
report is a prerequisite to advancing RIP-2 on the standards track.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]












Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1721    Malkin    Nov 94    RIP Version 2 Protocol Analysis

As required by Routing Protocol Criteria (RFC 1264), this report
documents the key features of the RIP-2 protocol and the current
implementation experience.  This report is a prerequisite to advancing
RIP-2 on the standards track. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1720    IAB       Nov 94    Internet Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1719    Gross     Dec 94    A Direction for IPng
                              Specification and Implementation

This RFC specifies criteria related to mobility for consideration in
design and selection of the Next Generation of IP. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1718    IETF Secretariat  Nov 94   The Tao of IETF
                                   A Guide for New Attendees of the
                                   Internet Engineering Task Force

The purpose of this For Your Information (FYI) RFC is to explain to the
newcomers how the IETF works. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard. [FYI 17]


1717    Sklower        Nov 94     The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)

This document proposes a method for splitting, recombining and
sequencing datagrams across multiple logical data links. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]











Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1716    Almquist       Nov 94     Towards Requirements for IP Routers

The goal of this work is to replace RFC-1009, Requirements for Internet
Gateways ([INTRO:1]) with a new document. It defines and discusses
requirements for devices which perform the network layer forwarding
function of the Internet protocol suite. This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1715    Huitema        Nov 94     The H Ratio for Address Assignment
                                  Efficiency

This document was submitted to the IETF IPng area in response to RFC
1550. This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1714    Williamson     Nov 94     Referral Whois Protocol (RWhois)

This memo describes version 1.0 of the client/server interaction of
RWhois.  RWhois provides a distributed system for the display of
hierarchical information. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1713    Romao          Nov 94      Tools for DNS debugging

Although widely used (and most of the times unnoticed), DNS (Domain Name
System) is too much overlooked, in the sense that people, especially
administrators, tend to ignore possible anomalies as long as
applications that need name-to-address mapping continue to work.  This
document presents some tools available for domain administrators to
detect and correct those anomalies. This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1712    Farrell        Nov 94     DNS Encoding of Geographical Location

This document defines the format of a new Resource Record (RR) for the
Domain Naming System (DNS), and reserves a corresponding DNS type
mnemonic and numerical code. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.





Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1711     Houttuin      Oct 94     Classifications in E-mail Routing

This paper presents a classification for e-mail routing issues. This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1710     Hinden       Oct 94      Simple Internet Protocol Plus
                                  White Paper

This document was submitted to the IETF IPng area in response to RFC
1550. This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1709     Gargano      Nov 94      K-12 Internetworking Guidelines

The K-12 community traditionally has not had this level of staffing
available for telecommunications planning.  This document is intended to
bridge that gap and provides a recommended technical direction, an
introduction to the role the Internet now plays in K-12 education and
technical guidelines for building a campus data communications
infrastructure that provides internetworking services and connections to
the Internet. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1708     Gowin       Oct 94      NTP PICS PROFORMA
                                 For the Network Time Protocol
                                 Version 3

This RFC describes a PICS Proforma translated into an Internet
acceptable form. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1707     McGovern    Oct 94     CATNIP: Common Architecture for
                                the Internet

This document was submitted to the IETF IPng area in response to RFC
1550. This paper describes a common architecture for the network layer
protocol. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.








Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1706    Manning     Oct 94     DNS NSAP Resource Records

This document defines the format of one new Resource Record (RR) for the
DNS for domain name-to-NSAP mapping. The RR may be used with any NSAP
address format.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1705    Carlson     Oct 94      Six Virtual Inches to the Left:
                                The Problem with IPng

This document was submitted to the IETF IPng area in response to RFC
1550. This RFC suggests that a new version of TCP (TCPng), and UDP, be
developed and deployed. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1704    Haller      Oct 94      On Internet Authentication

This document describes a spectrum of authentication technologies and
provides suggestions to protocol developers on what kinds of
authentication might be suitable for some kinds of protocols and
applications used in the Internet. This document provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1703    Rose       Oct 94      Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT
                               Subdomain:
                               Radio Paging -- Technical Procedures

This memo describes a technique for radio paging using the Internet mail
infrastructure.  In particular, this memo focuses on the case in which
radio pagers are identified via the international telephone network.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1702    Hanks       Oct 94    Generic Routing Encapsulation over
                              IPv4 networks

This memo addresses the case of using IP as the delivery protocol or the
payload protocol and the special case of IP as both the delivery and
payload.  This memo also describes using IP addresses and autonomous
system numbers as part of a GRE source route. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.




Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 1799                  Summary of 1700-1799              January 1997


1701    Hanks       Oct 94   Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE)

This document specifies a protocol for performing encapsulation of an
arbitrary network layer protocol over another arbitrary network layer
protocol. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1700    Reynolds     Oct 94      Assigned Numbers

This RFC is a snapshot of the ongoing process of the assignment of
protocol parameters for the Internet protocol suite.  To make the
current information readily available the assignments are kept up-to-
date in a set of online text files. This memo is a status report on the
parameters (i.e., numbers and keywords) used in protocols in the
Internet community.


Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Mary Kennedy
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail:  MKENNEDY@ISI.EDU


















Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 21]

