





Network Working Group                                         M. Kennedy
Request for Comments: 1299                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 1200-1299

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1200
   through RFCs 1299.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1299    Kennedy      Jan 97    Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1298    Wormley      Feb 92    SNMP over IPX

This memo defines a convention for encapsulating Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP) packets over the transport mechanism provided
via the Internetwork Packet Exchange (IPX) protocol.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.









Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1297    Johnson      Jan 92   NOC Internal Integrated Trouble Ticket
                              System
                              Functional Specification Wishlist

This document explores competing uses, architectures, and desirable
features of integrated internal trouble ticket systems for Network and
other Operations Centers. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1296     Lottor      Jan 92   Internet Growth (1981-1991)

This document illustrates the growth of the Internet by examination of
entries in the Domain Name System (DNS) and pre-DNS host tables.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.



1295 N.A.D.F.         Jan 92   User Bill of Rights for entries
                               and listings in the Public Directory

This RFC is a near-verbatim copy of a document, known as NADF-265, which
has been produced by the North American Directory Forum (NADF).  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1294     Bradley      Jan 92   Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame
                               Relay

This memo describes an encapsulation method for carrying network
interconnect traffic over a Frame Relay backbone.  It covers aspects of
both Bridging and Routing.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1293    Bradley       Jan 92   Inverse Address Resolution Protocol

This memo describes additions to ARP that will allow a station to
request a protocol address corresponding to a given hardware address.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]










Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1292    Lang          Jan 92   A Catalog of Available X.500
                               Implementations

The goal of this document is to provide information regarding the
availability and capability of implementations of X.500. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1291    Aggarwal      Dec 91   Mid-Level Networks Potential
                               Technical Services

This document proposes a set of technical services that each Internet
mid-level network can offer within the mid-level network itself and and
to its peer networks. This RFC provides information for the Internet
community. It does not specify an Internet standard.


1290    Martin        Dec 91   There's Gold in them thar Networks!
                               or Searching for Treasure in all the
                               Wrong Places

This paper will present some of the "gold nuggets" of information and
file repositories on the network that could be of use to end users. This
RFC provides information for the Internet community. It does not specify
an Internet standard.


1289    Saperia       Dec 91   DECnet Phase IV MIB Extensions

This memo is an extension to the SNMP MIB. This memo defines a set of
DECnet Phase IV extensions that have been created for the Internet MIB.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1288    Zimmerman     Dec 91   The Finger User Informational Protocol

This memo describes the Finger user information protocol.This is a
simple protocol which provides an interface to a remote user information
program. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1287    Clark         Dec 91 Towards the Future Internet Architecture

This informational RFC discusses important directions for possible
future evolution of the Internet architecture, and suggests steps
towards the desired goals. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.



Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1286    Decker        Dec 91   Definitions of Managed Objects for
                               Bridges

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular it defines objects for managing bridges based on the IEEE
802.1d draft standard between Local Area Network (LAN) segments. This
memo is an extension to the SNMP MIB. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1285    Case          Jan 92   FDDI Management Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing devices which implement the
FDDI. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1284    Cook          Dec 91   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                               Ethernet-like Interface Types

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing ethernet-like objects.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1283    Rose          Dec 91   SNMP over OSI

This memo describes mappings from the SNMP onto both the COTS and the
CLTS. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet Standard.


1282    Kantor        Dec 91   BSD Rlogin

This memo documents an existing protocol and common implementation that
is extensively used on the Internet.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1281    Pethia        Nov 91   Guidelines for the Secure Operation of
                               the Internet

The purpose of this document is to provide a set of guidelines to aid in
the secure operation of the Internet. This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.




Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1280    IAB           Mar 92   IAB Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Activities Board (IAB).  This
memo provides information for the Internet community. It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1279    Hardcastle-Kille  Nov 91   X.500 and Domains

This RFC considers X.500 in relation to Internet and UK Domains. This
memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard.


1278    Hardcastle-Kille  Nov 91    A string encoding of Presentation
                                    Address

There are a number of environments where a simple string encoding of
Presentation Address is desirable.  This specification defines such a
representation. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1277    Hardcastle-Kille  Nov 91     Encoding Network Addresses
                                     to support operation over non-OSI
                                     lower layers

This document defines a new network address format, and rules for using
some existing network address formats. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1276    Hardcastle-Kille  Nov 91     Replication and Distributed
                                     Operations extensions to provide
                                     an Internet Directory using X.500

Some requirements on extensions to X.500 are described in the
RFC[HK91b], in order to build an Internet Directory using X.500(1988).
This document specifies a set of solutions to the problems raised.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]











Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1275    Hardcastle-Kille  Nov 91    Replication Requirements to provide
                                    an Internet Directory using X.500

This RFC considers certain deficiencies of the 1988 X.500 standard,
which need to be addressed before an effective open Internet Directory
can be established using these protocols and services [CCI88]. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1274    Barker   Nov 91    The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema

This document suggests an X.500 Directory Schema, or Naming
Architecture, for use in the COSINE and Internet X.500 pilots.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1273   Schwartz  Nov 91   A Measurement Study of Changes in
                          Service-Level Reachability in the Global
                          TCP/IP Internet: Goals, Experimental Design,
                          Implementation, and Policy Considerations

This memo describes plans to carry out a longitudinal measurement study
of changes in service-level reachability in the global TCP/IP Internet.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1272    Mills    Nov 91   Internet Accounting: Background

This document provides background information for the "Internet
Accounting Architecture". This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1271   Waldbusser  Nov 91   Remote Network Monitoring Management
                            Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing remote network monitoring
devices. [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1270   Kastenholz  Oct 91   SNMP Communications Services

This document discusses various issues to be considered when determining
the underlying communications services to be used by an SNMP
implementation. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1269   Willis      Oct 91   Definitions of Managed Objects
                            for the Border Gateway Protocol (Version 3)

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the Border Gateway Protocol.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1268   Rekhter     Oct 91   Application of the Border Gateway Protocol
                            in the Internet

This document describes the usage of the BGP in the Internet.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1267   Lougheed   Oct 91   A Border Gateway Protocol 3 (BGP-3)

This memo, together with its companion document, "Application of the
Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet", define an inter-autonomous
system routing protocol for the Internet. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1266   Rekhter    Oct 91   Experience with the BGP Protocol

The purpose of this memo is to document how the requirements for
advancing a routing protocol to Draft Standard have been satisfied by
Border Gateway Protocol (BGP). This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1265   Rekhter   Oct 91    BGP Protocol Analysis

This report summarizes the key feature of BGP, and analyzes the protocol
with respect to scaling and performance. This memo provides information
for the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet standard.







Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1264   Hinden    Oct 91   Internet Engineering Task Force
                          Internet Routing Protocol Standardization
                          Criteria

This informational RFC presents procedures for creating and documenting
Internet standards on routing protocols.  These procedures have been
established by the Internet Activities Board (IAB) in consultation with
the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). This memo provides
information for the Internet community. It does not specifiy an Internet
standard.


1263   O'Malley  Oct 91  TCP Extensions Considered Harmful

This RFC comments on recent proposals to extend TCP.  It argues that the
backward compatible extensions proposed in RFC's 1072 and 1185 should
not be pursued, and proposes an alternative way to evolve the Internet
protocol suite. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1262   IAB      Oct 91  Guidelines for Internet Measurement Activities

This RFC represents IAB guidance for researchers considering measurement
experiments on the Internet. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1261   Williamson  Sept 91   Transition of NIC Services

This memo outlines the transition of NIC Services. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1260   Never issued.


1259   Kapor      Sept 91  Building The Open Road:
                           The NREN As Test-Bed For The National
                           Public Network

This memo discusses the background and importance of NREN. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.






Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1258   Kantor    Sept 91    BSD Rlogin

The rlogin facility provides a remote-echoed, locally flow-controlled
virtual terminal with proper flushing of output.This memo documents an
existing protocol and common implementation that is extensively used on
the Internet.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1257   Partridge  Sept 91  Isochronous Applications Do Not Require
                           Jitter-Controlled Networks

This memo argues that jitter control is not required for networks to
support isochronous applications. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1256   Deering   Sept 91   ICMP Router Discovery Messages

This document specifies an extension of the Internet Control Message
Protocol (ICMP) to enable hosts attached to multicast or broadcast
networks to discover the IP addresses of their neighboring routers.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1255   N.A.D.F.   Sept 91   A Naming Scheme for c=US

This memo documents the NADF's agreement as to how entries are named in
the public portions of the North American Directory. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1254   Mankin     Aug 91    Gateway Congestion Control Survey

The purpose of this paper is to present a review of the congestion
control approaches, as a way of encouraging new discussion and
experimentation.  Included in the survey are Source Quench, Random Drop,
Congestion Indication (DEC Bit), and Fair Queueing.


1253    Baker    Aug 91    OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing OSPF Version 2. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]




Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1252    Baker   Aug 91    OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing OSPF Version 2. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1251    Malkin  Aug 91   Who's Who in the Internet
                         Biographies of IAB, IESG and IRSG Members

This FYI RFC contains biographical information about members of the
Internet Activities Board (IAB), the Internet Engineering Steering Group
(IESG) of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), and the the
Internet Research Steering Group (IRSG) of the Internet Research Task
Force (IRTF). This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard. [FYI 9]


1250    IAB    Aug 91    IAB Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Activities Board (IAB).  This
memo provides information for the Internet community. It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1249   Howes   Aug 91    DIXIE Protocol Specification

This RFC defines a mechanism by which TCP/UDP based clients can access
OSI Directory Service without the overhead of the ISO transport and
presentation protocols required to implement full-blown DAP.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
any standard.


1248   Baker   Jul 91   OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based
internets.  In particular, it defines objects for managing OSPF Version
2. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1247   Moy     Jul 91   OSPF Version 2

This memo documents version 2 of the OSPF protocol.  OSPF is a link-
state based routing protocol. [STANDARDS-TRACK]



Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1246   Moy      Jul 91   Experience with the OSPF protocol

This report documents experience with OSPF V2. This includes reports on
interoperability testing, field experience, simulations and the current
state of OSPF implementations. This memo provides information for the
Internet community. It does not specify any Internet standard.


1245   Moy      Jul 91    OSPF protocol analysis

This report attempts to summarize the key features of OSPF V2. It also
attempts to analyze how the protocol will perform and scale in the
Internet. This memo provides information for the Internet community. It
does not specify any Internet standard.


1244   Holbrook  Jul 91   Site Security Handbook

This FYI RFC is a first attempt at providing Internet users guidance on
how to deal with security issues in the Internet. This FYI RFC provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard. [FYI 8]


1243   Waldbusser  Jul 91  AppleTalk Management Information Base

This memo defines objects for managing AppleTalk objects for use with
the SNMP protocol. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1242   Bradner     Jul 91  Benchmarking Terminology for Network
                           Interconnection Devices

This memo discusses and defines a number of terms that are used in
describing performance benchmarking tests and the results of such tests.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1241   Woodburn   Jul 91   A Scheme for an Internet Encapsulation
                           Protocol:  Version 1

This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.







Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1240   Shue      Jun 91    OSI Connectionless Transport Services
                           on top of UDP
                           Version: 1

This document describes a protocol for running OSI Connectionless
service on UDP. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1239   Reynolds  Jun 91    Reassignment of Experimental MIBs to
                           Standard MIBs

This memo specifically updates RFC 1229, RFC 1230, RFC 1231, RFC 1232
and RFC 1233 with new codes. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1238   Satz      Jun 91    CLNS MIB for use with Connectionless
                           Network Protocol (ISO 8473) and
                           End System to Intermediate System (ISO 9542)

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based
internets.  This is an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.


1237   Colella   Jul 91    Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation
                           in the Internet

This paper provides guidelines for allocating NSAPs in the
Internet.[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1236   Morales   Jun 91    IP to X.121 Address Mapping for DDN
                           A Model for Routing in the Internet

This memo defines a standard way of converting IP addresses to CCITT
X.121 addresses and is the recommended standard for use on the Internet,
specifically for the Defense Data Network (DDN).  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1235   Ioannidis  Jun 91   The Coherent File Distribution Protocol

This memo describes the Coherent File Distribution Protocol (CFDP).
This is an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community. It does not
specify an Internet standard.




Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1234   Provan     Jun 91   Tunneling IPX Traffic through IP Networks

This memo describes a method of encapsulating IPX datagrams within UDP
packets so that IPX traffic can travel across an IP internet.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1233   Cox        May 91   Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS3
                           Interface Type

This memo defines objects for managing DS3 Interface objects for use
with the SNMP protocol. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1234   Baker     May 91    Definitions of Managed Objects
                           for the DS1 Interface Type

This memo defines objects for managing DS1 Interface objects for use
with the SNMP protocol. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1231   McCloghrie  May 91  IEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based
internets.  In particular, this memo defines managed objects used for
managing subnetworks which use the IEEE 802.5 Token Ring technology
described in 802.5 Token Ring Access Method and Physical Layer
Specifications, IEEE Standard 802.5-1989. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1230   McCloghrie   May 91  IEEE 802.4 Token Bus MIB

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based
internets.  In particular, this memo defines managed objects used for
managing subnetworks which use the IEEE 802.4 Token Bus technology
described in 802.4 Token-Passing Bus Access Method and Physical Layer
Specifications, IEEE Standard 802.4. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1229   McCloghrie   May 91  Extensions to the Generic-Interface MIB

This RFC contains definitions of managed objects used as experimental
extensions to the generic interfaces structure of MIB-II. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]





Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1228   Carpenter    May 91  Simple Network Management Protocol
                            Distributed Program Interface

This RFC describes a protocol that International Business Machines
Corporation (IBM) has been implementing in most of its SNMP agents to
allow dynamic extension of supported MIBs. This is an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1227    Rose      May 91   SNMP MUX Protocol and MIB

This memo suggests a mechanism by which a user process may associate
itself with the local SNMP agent on a host, in order to implement
portions of the MIB.  This mechanism would be local to the host.This is
an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community. It does not specify
an Internet standard.


1226   Kantor   May 91   Internet Protocol Encapsulation of AX.25 Frame

This memo describes a method for the encapsulation of AX.25 (the Amateur
Packet-Radio Link-Layer Protocol) frames within IP packets.  This
technique is an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard.


1225  Rose     May 91   Post Office Protocol - Version 3

This memo suggests a simple method for workstations to dynamically
access mail from a mailbox server.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1224  Steinberg  May 91  Techniques for Managing Asynchronously
                         Generated Alerts

This memo defines common mechanisms for managing asynchronously produced
alerts in a manner consistent with current network management protocols.
This memo specifies an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.











Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1223  Halpern  May 91   OSI CLNS and LLC1 Protocols on Network Systems
                        HYPERchannel

The intent of this document is to provide a complete discussion of the
protocols and techniques used to transmit OSI CLNS and LLC1 datagrams
(and any associated higher level protocols) on Network Systems
Corporation's HYPERchannel equipment.This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1222    Braun         May 91   Advancing the NSFNET Routing Architecture

This RFC suggests improvements in the NSFNET routing architecture to
accommodate a more flexible interface to the Backbone clients.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1221     Edmond      Apr 91   Host Access Protocol (HAP) Specification
                              - Version 2

This memo describes the Host Access Protocol implemented in the
Terrestrial Wideband Network (TWBNET). This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1220     Baker       Apr 91   Point-to-Point Protocol Extensions
                              for Bridging

This document defines an extension of the Internet Point-to-Point
Protocol (PPP) described in RFC 1171, targeting the use of Point-to-
Point lines for Remote Bridging. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1219    Tsuchiya     Apr 91   On the Assignment of Subnet Numbers

This memo suggests a new procedure for assigning subnet numbers.  Use of
this assignment technique within a network would be a purely local
matter, and would not effect other networks. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.










Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1218    N.A.D.F.    Apr 91  A Naming Scheme for c=US

This RFC is a near-verbatim copy of a document, known as NADF-123, which
has been produced by the North American Directory Forum (NADF). As a
part of its charter, the NADF must reach agreement as to how entries are
named in the public portions of the North American Directory. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1217   Cerf        Apr 91   Memo from the Consortium for Slow
                            Commotion Research (CSCR)


This RFC is in response to RFC 1216, "Gigabit Network Economics and
Paradigm Shifts".  This memo provides information for the Internet
community. It does not specify an Internet standard.


1216  P.R.A.I.     Apr 91  Gigabit Network Economics and Paradigm Shifts

This memo proposes a new standard paradigm for the Internet Activities
Board (IAB) standardization track. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1215  Rose         Mar 91  A Convention for Defining Traps
                           for use with the SNMP

This memo suggests a straight-forward approach towards defining traps
used with the SNMP. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify any standard.


1214  Labarre      Apr 91  OSI Internet Management: Management
                           Information Base

This RFC documents a MIB for use with CMIP, either over pure OSI stacks
or with the CMIP over TCP specification.  It redefines objects comprised
by the second revision of the Management Information Base for Network
Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II so as to conform to the OSI
structure of management information. [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1213   McCloghrie  Mar 91  Management Information Base for Network
                           Management of TCP/IP-based internets:
                           MIB-II

This memo defines the second version of the Management Information Base
(MIB-II) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based
internets. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1212   Rose       Mar 91   Concise MIB Definitions

This memo describes a straight-forward approach toward producing
concise, yet descriptive, MIB modules. This memo defines a format for
producing MIB modules. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1211  Westine     Mar 91    Problems with the Maintenance of Large
                            Mailing Lists

This RFC discusses problems with maintaining large mailing lists,
especially the processing of error reports.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1210   Cerf      Mar 91    Network and Infrastructure User
                           Requirements for Transatlantic Research
                           Collaboration

This report complements a shorter printed version which appeared in a
summary report of all the committees which met in Brussels and
Washington last July, 1990.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1209   Piscitello   Mar 91  The Transmission of IP Datagrams over the
                            SMDS Service

This memo defines a protocol for the transmission of IP and ARP packets
over a Switched Multi-megabit Data Service Network configured as a
logical IP subnetwork. [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1208   Jacobsen     Mar 91  A Glossary of Networking Terms

This RFC is a glossary adapted from "The INTEROP Pocket Glossary of
Networking Terms" distributed at Interop '90.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1207   Malkin      Feb 91   FYI on Questions and Answers
                            Answers to Commonly asked "Experienced
                            Internet User" Questions

This FYI RFC is one of two FYI's called, "Questions and Answers" (Q/A),
produced by the User Services Working Group of the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF).  The goal is to document the most commonly asked
questions and answers in the Internet. This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify any standard.


1206   Malkin      Feb 91   FYI on Questions and Answers
                            Answers to Commonly asked "New
                            Internet User" Questions

This FYI RFC is one of two FYI's called, "Questions and Answers" (Q/A).
The goal is to document the most commonly asked questions and answers in
the Internet. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify any standard. [FYI 4]


1205   Chmielewski  Feb 91  5250 Telnet Interface

This RFC is being distributed in order to document the interface to the
IBM 5250 Telnet implementation. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify any standard.


1204   Yeh         Feb 91   Message Posting Protocol (MPP)

This memo describes a protocol for posting messages from workstations
(e.g., PCs) to a mail service host.  This RFC specifies an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community. It does not specify any standard.










Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


1203   Rice       Feb 91    Interactive Mail Access Protocol
                            - Version 3

This RFC suggests a method for workstations to access mail dynamically
from a mailbox server ("repository"). The following document is a
modified version of RFC 1064, the definition of the IMAP2 protocol. This
RFC specifies an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community. It
does not specify any standard.


1202   Rose       Feb 91    Directory Assistance Service

This document defines a mechanism by which a user-interface may access a
textual DAP-like interface over a TCP/IP connection.  This is a local
mechanism.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify any standard.


1201   Provan    Feb 91     Transmitting IP Traffic over ARCNET
                            Networks

This memo defines a protocol for the transmission of IP and ARP packets
over the ARCnet Local Area Network.This memo specifies a method of
encapsulating Internet Protocol (IP) and Address Resolution Protocol
(ARP) datagrams for transmission across ARCNET using the "ARCNET Packet
Header Definition Standard". [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1200   IAB      Apr 91      IAB Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Activities Board (IAB).  An
overview of the standards procedures is presented first, followed by
discussions of the standardization process and the RFC document series,
then the explanation of the terms is presented, the lists of protocols
in each stage of standardization follows, and finally pointers to
references and contacts for further information.














Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 1299                  Summary of 1200-1299              January 1997


Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Mary Kennedy
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail:  MKENNEDY@ISI.EDU




































Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 20]

