





Network Working Group                                         M. Kennedy
Request for Comments: 1599                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                        RFC Numbers 1500 - 1599

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1500
   through RFCs 1599.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1599    Kennedy     Jan 96   Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1598    Simpson      Mar 94  PPP in X.25

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for
transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links.  This
document describes the use of X.25 for framing PPP encapsulated packets.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]










Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1597     Rekhter     Mar 94   Address Allocation for Private Internets

This RFC describes methods to preserve IP address space by not
allocating globally unique IP addresses to hosts private to an
enterprise while still permitting full network layer connectivity
between all hosts inside an enterprise as well as between all public
hosts of different enterprises. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1296     Brown       Mar 94   Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for Frame Relay Service

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the Frame Relay Service.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1295     Brown       Mar 94   Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for the SONET/SDH Interface Type

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing Synchronous Optical
Network/Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SONET/SDH) objects.  This
document is a companion document with Definitions of Managed Objects for
the DS1/E1 and DS3/E3 Interface Types, RFC1406 and RFC1407.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1594     Marine      Mar 94   FYI on Questions and Answers
                              Answers to Commonly asked "New Internet
                              User" Questions

This FYI RFC is one of two FYI's called, "Questions and Answers" (Q/A).
The goal is to document the most commonly asked questions and answers in
the Internet. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind. [FYI 4]










Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1593     McKenzie    Mar 94   SNA APPN Node MIB

This RFC describes IBM's SNMP support for SNA Advanced Peer-to-Peer
Networking (APPN) nodes.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1592      Wijnen     Mar 94   Simple Network Management Protocol

This RFC describes version 2.0 of a protocol that International Business
Machines Corporation (IBM) has been implementing in most of its SNMP
agents to allow dynamic extension of supported MIBs. This memo defines
an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1591     Postel      Mar 94   Domain Name System Structure and
                              Delegation

This memo provides some information on the structure of the names in the
Domain Name System (DNS), specifically the top-level domain names; and
on the administration of domains. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1590    Postel      Mar 94   Media Type Registration Procedure

Several questions have been raised about the requirements and
administrative procedure for registering MIME content-type and subtypes,
and the use of these Media Types for other applications.  This document
addresses these issues and specifies a procedure for the registration of
new Media Types (content-type/subtypes).  It also generalizes the scope
of use of these Media Types to make it appropriate to use the same
registrations and specifications with other applications.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.

1589    Mills       Mar 94   A Kernel Model for Precision Timekeeping

This memorandum describes an engineering model which implements a
precision time-of-day function for a generic operating system. The model
is based on the principles of disciplined oscillators and phase-lock
loops (PLL) often found in the engineering literature. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.




Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1588    Postel     Feb 94   White Pages Meeting Report

This report describes the results of a meeting held at the November IETF
(Internet Engineering Task Force) in Houston, TX, on November 2, 1993,
to discuss the future of and approaches to a white pages directory
services for the Internet. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1587     Coltun    Mar 94   The OSPF NSSA Option

This document describes a new optional type of OSPF area, somewhat
humorously referred to as a "not-so-stubby" area (or NSSA).  NSSAs are
similar to the existing OSPF stub area configuration option but have the
additional capability of importing AS external routes in a limited
fashion. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1586     deSouza   Mar 94   Guidelines for Running OSPF
                            Over Frame Relay Networks

This memo specifies guidelines for implementors and users of the Open
Shortest Path First (OSPF) routing protocol to bring about improvements
in how the protocol runs over frame relay networks. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1585     Moy      Mar 94     MOSPF: Analysis and Experience

This memo documents how the MOSPF protocol satisfies the requirements
imposed on Internet routing protocols by "Internet Engineering Task
Force internet routing protocol standardization criteria" ([RFC 1264]).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1584     Moy       Mar 94           Multicast Extensions to OSPF

This memo documents enhancements to the OSPF protocol enabling the
routing of IP multicast datagrams. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1583     Moy       Mar 94           OSPF Version 2

This memo documents version 2 of the OSPF protocol.  OSPF is a link-
state routing protocol. [STANDARDS-TRACK]



Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1582     Meyer     Feb 94    Extensions to RIP to Support
                             Demand Circuits

This memo defines a generalized modification which can be applied to
Bellman-Ford (or distance vector) algorithm information broadcasting
protocols. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1581     Meyer     Feb 94    Protocol Analysis for Extensions to RIP
                             to Support Demand Circuits

As required by Routing Protocol Criteria, this report documents the key
features of Routing over Demand Circuits on Wide Area Networks - RIP and
the current implementation experience. This memo provides information
for the Internet community. This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1580     EARN      Mar 94    Guide to Network Resource Tools

The purpose of this guide is to supply the basic information that anyone
on the network needs to try out and begin using tools. This memo
provides information for the Internet community. This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind. [FYI 23]


1579     Bellovin  Feb 94    Firewall-Friendly FTP

This memo describes a suggested change to the behavior of FTP client
programs. This document provides information for the Internet community.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1578     Sellers   Feb 94    FYI on Questions and Answers
                             Answers to Commonly Asked "Primary and
                             Secondary School Internet User"
                             Questions

The goal of this FYI RFC is to document the questions most commonly
asked about the Internet by those in the primary and secondary school
community, and to provide pointers to sources which answer those
questions. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  [FYI 22]







Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1577    Laubach    Jan 94    Classical IP and ARP over ATM

This memo defines an initial application of classical IP and ARP in an
Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) network environment configured as a
Logical IP Subnetwork (LIS). [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1576    Penner     Jan 94    TN3270 Current Practices

This document describes the existing implementation of transferring 3270
display terminal data using currently available telnet capabilities.
The name traditionally associated with this implementation is TN3270.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1575    Hares     Feb 94    An Echo Function for CLNP (ISO 8473)

This memo defines an echo function for the connection-less network layer
protocol.  The mechanism that is mandated here is in the final process
of being standardized by ISO as "Amendment X: Addition of an Echo
function to ISO 8473" an integral part of Version 2 of ISO 8473.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1574    Hares    Feb 94    Essential Tools for the OSI Internet

This document specifies the following three necessary tools to debug
problems in the deployment and maintenance of networks using ISO 8473
(CLNP): ping or OSI Echo function, traceroute function which uses the
OSI Echo function, and routing table dump function.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1573    McCloghrie   Jan 94    Evolution of the Interfaces
                               Group of MIB-II

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing Network
Interfaces. [STANARDS-TRACK]








Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1572    Alexander   Jan 94    Telnet Environment Option

This document specifies a mechanism for passing environment information
between a telnet client and server.  Use of this mechanism enables a
telnet user to propagate configuration information to a remote host when
connecting. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1571   Borman      Jan 94    Telnet Environment Option
                             Interoperability Issues

This document describes a method for allowing implementors to ensure
that their implementation of the Environment option will be
interoperable with as many other implementations as possible, by
providing a set of heuristics that can be used to help identify which
definitions for VAR and VALUE are being used by the other side of the
connection. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1570    Simpson     Jan 94    PPP LCP Extensions

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for
transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links.  PPP
defines an extensible Link Control Protocol (LCP) for establishing,
configuring, and testing the data-link connection.  This document
defines several additional LCP features which have been suggested over
the past few years. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1569    Rose       Jan 94     Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT
                              Subdomain: Radio Paging
                              -- Technical Procedures

This memo describes a technique for radio paging using the Internet mail
infrastructure.  In particular, this memo focuses on the case in which
radio pagers are identified via the international telephone network.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1568    Gwinn     Jan 94     Simple Network Paging Protocol
                             - Version 1(b)

This RFC suggests a simple way for delivering both alphanumeric and
numeric pages (one-way) to radio paging terminals. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.



Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1567    Mansfield  Jan 94     X.500 Directory Monitoring MIB

This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base
(MIB).  It defines the MIB for monitoring Directory System Agents (DSA),
a component of the OSI Directory. This MIB will be used in conjunction
with the APPLICATION-MIB for monitoring DSAs. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1566    Kille      Jan 94    Mail Monitoring MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community. In
particular, this memo extends the basic Network Services Monitoring MIB
to allow monitoring of Message Transfer Agents (MTAs). It may also be
used to monitor MTA components within gateways.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1565    Kille      Jan 94    Network Services Monitoring MIB

This document defines a MIB which contains the elements common to the
monitoring of any network service application.  This information
includes a table of all monitorable network service applications, a
count of the associations (connections) to each application, and basic
information about the parameters and status of each application-related
association. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1564    Barker     Jan 94    DSA Metrics (OSI-DS 34 (v3))

This document defines a set of criteria by which a DSA implementation
may be judged.  Particular issues covered include conformance to
standards; performance; demonstrated interoperability. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1563    Borenstein  Jan 94   The text/enriched MIME Content-type

MIME [RFC-1341, RFC-1521] defines a format and general framework for the
representation of a wide variety of data types in Internet mail.  This
document defines one particular type of MIME data, the text/enriched
type, a refinement of the "text/richtext" type defined in RFC 1341.  The
text/enriched MIME type is intended to facilitate the wider
interoperation of simple enriched text across a wide variety of hardware
and software platforms. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.





Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1562     Michaelson  Dec 93  Naming Guidelines for the AARNet X.500
                             Directory Service

This document is an AARNet (Australian Academic and Research Network)
Engineering Note (AEN-001).  AARNet Engineering Notes are engineering
documents of the AARNet Engineering Working Group, and record current or
proposed operational practices related to the provision of
Internetworking services within Australia, and AARNet in particular.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1561    Piscitello  Dec 93   Use of ISO CLNP in TUBA Environments

This memo specifies a profile of the ISO/IEC 8473 Connectionless-mode
Network Layer Protocol for use in conjunction with RFC 1347, TCP/UDP
over Bigger Addresses.  It describes the use of CLNP to provide the
lower-level service expected by Transmission Control Protocol and User
Datagram Protocol.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1560    Leiner    Dec 93     The MultiProtocol Internet

There has recently been considerable discussion on two topics:
MultiProtocol approaches in the Internet and the selection of a next
generation Internet Protocol. This document suggests a strawman position
for goals and approaches for the IETF/IESG/IAB in these areas. It takes
the view that these two topics are related, and proposes directions for
the IETF/IESG/IAB to pursue. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1559   Saperia    Dec 93     DECnet Phase IV MIB Extensions

This memo defines a set of DECnet Phase IV extensions that have been
created for the Internet MIB.  It reflects changes which are the result
of operational experience based on RFC 1289. [STANDARDS-TRACK]











Kennedy                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1558   Howes      Dec 93     A String Representation of LDAP
                             Search Filters

The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) defines a network
representation of a search filter transmitted to an LDAP server.  Some
applications may find it useful to have a common way of representing
these search filters in a human-readable form.  This document defines a
human-readable string format for representing LDAP search filters. This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1557   Choi       Dec 93     Korean Character Encoding for Internet
                             Messages

This document describes the encoding method being used to represent
Korean characters in both header and body part of the Internet mail
messages [RFC822].  This encoding method was specified in 1991, and has
since then been used.  It has now widely being used in Korean IP
networks. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1556   Nussbacher  Dec 93   Handling of Bi-directional Texts in MIME

This document describes the format and syntax of the "direction" keyword
to be used with bi-directional texts in MIME. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1555   Nussbacher   Dec 93   Hebrew Character Encoding for Internet
                             Messages

This document describes the encoding used in electronic mail [RFC822]
for transferring Hebrew.  The standard devised makes use of MIME
[RFC1521] and ISO-8859-8. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.












Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1554   Ohta         Dec 93  ISO-2022-JP-2: Multilingual Extension
                            of ISO-2022-JP

This memo describes a text encoding scheme: "ISO-2022-JP-2", which is
used experimentally for electronic mail [RFC822] and network news
[RFC1036] messages in several Japanese networks.  The encoding is a
multilingual extension of "ISO-2022-JP", the existing encoding for
Japanese [2022JP].  The encoding is supported by an Emacs based
multilingual text editor: MULE [MULE]. This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1553   Mathur     Dec 93   Compressing IPX Headers Over WAN Media (CIPX)

This document describes a method for compressing the headers of IPX
datagrams (CIPX). [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1552   Simpson   Dec 93   The PPP Internetwork Packet Exchange Control
                          Protocol (IPXCP)

This document defines the Network Control Protocol for establishing and
configuring the IPX protocol over PPP. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1551   Allen     Dec 93   Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media (IPXWAN)

This document describes how Novell IPX operates over various WAN media.
Specifically, it describes the common "IPX WAN" protocol Novell uses to
exchange necessary router to router information prior to exchanging
standard IPX routing information and traffic over WAN datalinks. This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1550   Bradner    Dec 93       IP: Next Generation (IPng) White Paper
                               Solicitation

This memo solicits white papers on topics related to the IPng
requirements and selection criteria. This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.








Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1549   Simpson    Dec 93      PPP in HDLC Framing

This document describes the use of HDLC for framing PPP encapsulated
packets. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1548   Simpson    Dec 93      The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)

This document defines the PPP organization and methodology, and the PPP
encapsulation, together with an extensible option negotiation mechanism
which is able to negotiate a rich assortment of configuration parameters
and provides additional management functions. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1547   Perkins    Dec 93      Requirements for an Internet Standard
                              Point-to-Point Protocol

This document discusses the evaluation criteria for an Internet Standard
Data Link Layer protocol to be used with point-to-point links. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1546   Partridge  Nov 93      Host Anycasting Service

This RFC describes an internet anycasting service for IP.  The primary
purpose of this memo is to establish the semantics of an anycasting
service within an IP internet. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1545   Piscitello  Nov 93     FTP Operation Over Big Address Records
                              (FOOBAR)

This RFC specifies a method for assigning long addresses in the HOST-
PORT specification for the data port to be used in establishing a data
connection for File Transfer Protocol, FTP (STD 9, RFC 959). This is a
general solution, applicable for all "next generation" IP alternatives,
and can also be extended to allow FTP operation over transport
interfaces other than TCP. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.








Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1544   Rose      Nov 93      The Content-MD5 Header Field

This memo defines the use of an optional header field, Content-MD5,
which may be used as a message integrity check (MIC), to verify that the
decoded data are the same data that were initially sent.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1543   Postel    Oct 93      Instructions to RFC Authors

This Request for Comments (RFC) provides information about the
preparation of RFCs, and certain policies relating to the publication of
RFCs. This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1542   Wimer     Oct 93     Clarifications and Extensions for the
                            Bootstrap Protocol

Some aspects of the BOOTP protocol were rather loosely defined in its
original specification.  In particular, only a general description was
provided for the behavior of "BOOTP relay agents" (originally called
BOOTP forwarding agents").  The client behavior description also
suffered in certain ways.  This memo attempts to clarify and strengthen
the specification in these areas. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1541    Droms    Oct 93    Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides a framework for
passing configuration information to hosts on a TCP/IP network.  DHCP is
based on the Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP) adding the capability of
automatic allocation of reusable network addresses and additional
configuration options. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1540    IAB     Oct 93     Internet Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Activities Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]










Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1539   Malkin   Oct 93    A Guide for New Attendees of the Internet
                          Engineering Task Force

The purpose of this For Your Information (FYI) RFC is to explain to the
newcomers how the IETF works. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.  [FYI 17]


1538   Behl    Oct 93    Advanced SNA/IP : A Simple SNA Transport
                         Protocol

This RFC provides information for the Internet community about a method
for establishing and maintaining SNA sessions over an IP internet. This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1537   Beertema  Oct 93  Common DNS Data File Configuration Errors

This memo describes errors often found in DNS data files. It points out
common mistakes system administrators tend to make and why they often go
unnoticed for long periods of time. This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1536   Kumar    Oct 93   Common DNS Implementation Errors and
                         Suggested Fixes

This memo describes common errors seen in DNS implementations and
suggests some fixes.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1535   Gavron   Oct 93   A Security Problem and Proposed Correction
                         With Widely Deployed DNS Software

This document discusses a flaw in some of the currently distributed name
resolver clients.  The flaw exposes a security weakness related to the
search heuristic invoked by these same resolvers when users provide a
partial domain name, and which is easy to exploit.  This document points
out the flaw, a case in point, and a solution. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.








Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1534   Droms    Oct 93   Interoperation Between DHCP and BOOTP

DHCP provides a superset of the functions provided by BOOTP. This
document describes the interactions between DHCP and BOOTP network
participants. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1533   Alexander Oct 93  DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions

This document specifies the current set of DHCP options. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1532  Wimer     Oct 93    Clarifications and Extensions for the
                          Bootstrap Protocol

Some aspects of the BOOTP protocol were rather loosely defined in its
original specification.  In particular, only a general description was
provided for the behavior of "BOOTP relay agents" (originally called
BOOTP forwarding agents").  The client behavior description also
suffered in certain ways.  This memo attempts to clarify and strengthen
the specification in these areas. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1531  Droms    Oct 93     Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides a framework for
passing configuration information to hosts on a TCP/IP network.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1530  Malamud   Oct 93   Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT
                         Subdomain: General Principles and Policy

This document defines the initial principles of operation for the
tpc.int subdomain, a collection of service listings accessible over the
Internet infrastructure through an administered namespace contained
within the Domain Name System. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.












Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1529  Malamud   Oct 93   Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT
                         Subdomain:  Remote Printing --
                         Administrative Policies

This document defines the administrative policies for the operation of
remote printer facilities within the context of the tpc.int subdomain.
The document describes different approaches to resource recovery for
remote printer server sites and includes discussions of issues
pertaining to auditing, security, and denial of access. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1528  Malamud  Oct 93   Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT
                        Subdomain: Remote Printing -- Technical
                        Procedures

This memo describes a technique for "remote printing" using the Internet
mail infrastructure.  In particular, this memo focuses on the case in
which remote printers are connected to the international telephone
network. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1527  Cook    Sep 93    What Should We Plan Given the
                        Dilemma of the Network?

The Internet community needs to be asking what the most important policy
issues facing the network are.  And given agreement on any particular
set of policy issues, the next thing we should be asking is, what would
be some of the political choices that would follow for Congress to make?
This memo is a shortened version of the suggested policy draft. This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1526   Piscitello     Sep 93  Assignment of System Identifiers for
                              TUBA/CLNP Hosts

This document describes conventions whereby the system identifier
portion of an RFC 1237 style NSAP address may be guaranteed uniqueness
within a routing domain for the purpose of autoconfiguration in
TUBA/CLNP internets. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.







Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1525   Decker        Sep 93   Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              Source Routing Bridges

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing source routing and source
routing transparent bridges.  These bridges are also required to
implement relevant groups in the Bridge MIB. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1524   Borenstein     Sep 93  A User Agent Configuration Mechanism
                              For Multimedia Mail Format Information

This memo suggests a file format to be used to inform multiple mail
reading user agent programs about the locally-installed facilities for
handling mail in various formats. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1523   Borenstein    Sep 93   The text/enriched MIME Content-type

MIME [RFC-1341, RFC-1521] defines a format and general framework for the
representation of a wide variety of data types in Internet mail.  This
document defines one particular type of MIME data, the text/enriched
type, a refinement of the "text/richtext" type defined in RFC 1341. This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1522    Moore       Sep 93    MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail
                              Extensions) Part Two:
                              Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII
                              Text

This memo describes an extension to the message format defined in RFC
1521,  to allow the representation of character sets other than ASCII in
RFC 822 (STD 11) message headers.  The extensions described were
designed to be highly compatible with existing Internet mail handling
software, and to be easily implemented in mail readers that support RFC
1521.











Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1521    Borenstein   Sep 93   MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail
                              Extensions) Part One:
                              Mechanisms for Specifying and Describing
                              the Format of Internet Message Bodies

This document redefines the format of message bodies to allow multi-part
textual and non-textual message bodies to be represented and exchanged
without loss of information.  This is based on earlier work documented
in RFC 934 and STD 11, RFC 1049, but extends and revises that work.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1520    Rekhter      Sep 93    Exchanging Routing Information Across
                               Provider Boundaries in the CIDR
                               Environment

The purpose of this document is twofold. First, it describes various
alternatives for exchanging inter-domain routing information across
domain boundaries, where one of the peering domain is CIDR-capable and
another is not.  Second, it addresses the implications of running CIDR-
capable inter-domain routing protocols (e.g., BGP-4, IDRP) on intra-
domain routing.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1519    Fuller      Sep 93     Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR):
                               an Address Assignment and Aggregation
                               Strategy

This memo discusses strategies for address assignment of the existing IP
address space with a view to conserve the address space and stem the
explosive growth of routing tables in default-route-free routers.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1518    Rekhter    Sep 93     An Architecture for IP Address
                              Allocation with CIDR

This paper provides an architecture and a plan for allocating IP
addresses in the Internet. This architecture and the plan are intended
to play an important role in steering the Internet towards the Address
Assignment and Aggregating Strategy. [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1517    IESG       Sep 93     Applicability Statement for the
                              Implementation of Classless
                              Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)

Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) defines a mechanism to slow the
growth of routing tables and reduce the need to allocate new IP network
numbers. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1516    McMaster    Sep 93    Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for IEEE 802.3 Repeater Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing IEEE 802.3 10 Mb/second
baseband repeaters, sometimes referred to as "hubs." [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1515   McMaster    Sep 93    Definitions of Managed Objects
                             for IEEE 802.3 Medium Attachment Units
                             (MAUs)

This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing IEEE 802.3 Medium Attachment
Units (MAUs). [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1514   Grillo     Sep 93    Host Resources MIB

This memo defines a MIB for use with managing host systems. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1513   Waldbusser  Sep 93    Token Ring Extensions to the Remote
                             Network Monitoring MIB

This memo defines extensions to the Remote Network Monitoring MIB for
managing 802.5 Token Ring networks. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1512   Case       Sep 93     FDDI Management Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing devices which implement the
FDDI based on the ANSI FDDI SMT 7.3 draft standard, which has been
forwarded for publication by the X3T9.5 committee.



Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1511   Linn      Sep 93     Common Authentication Technology Overview

This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1510   Kohl     Sep 93     The Kerberos Network Authentication Service
                           (V5)

This document gives an overview and specification of Version 5 of the
protocol for the Kerberos network authentication system. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1509   Wray     Sep 93     Generic Security Service API : C-bindings

This document specifies C language bindings for the Generic Security
Service Application Program Interface (GSS-API), which is described at a
language-independent conceptual level in other documents. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1508   Linn    Sep 93     Generic Security Service Application Program
                          Interface

This Generic Security Service Application Program Interface (GSS-API)
definition provides security services to callers in a generic fashion,
supportable with a range of underlying mechanisms and technologies and
hence allowing source-level portability of applications to different
environments. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1507   Kaufman  Sep 93    DASS
                          Distributed Authentication Security Service

The goal of DASS is to provide authentication services in a distributed
environment which are both more secure and easier to use than existing
mechanisms. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.












Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1506   Houttuin  Sep 93   A Tutorial on Gatewaying between X.400 and
                          Internet Mail

This tutorial was produced especially to help new gateway managers find
their way into the complicated subject of mail gatewaying according to
RFC 1327. This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard.


1505   Costanzo   Aug 93   Encoding Header Field for Internet Messages

This document expands upon the elective experimental Encoding header
field which permits the mailing of multi-part, multi-structured
messages.  It replaces RFC 1154. This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1504   Oppenheimer  Aug 93   Appletalk Update-Based Routing Protocol:
                             Enhanced Appletalk Routing

This document provides detailed information about the AppleTalk Update-
based Routing Protocol (AURP) and wide area routing. AURP provides wide
area routing enhancements to the AppleTalk routing protocols and is
fully compatible with AppleTalk Phase 2. This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1503    McCloghrie Aug 93    Algorithms for Automating Administration
                             in SNMPv2 Managers

When a user invokes an SNMPv2 management application, it may be
desirable for the user to specify the minimum amount of information
necessary to establish and maintain SNMPv2 communications.  This memo
suggests an approach to achieve this goal. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1502   Alvestrand  Aug 93   X.400 Use of Extended Character Sets

This RFC defines a suggested method of using "GeneralText" in order to
harmonize as much as possible the usage of this body part. [STANDARDS-
TRACK]







Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 1599                  Summary of 1500-1599              January 1997


1501   Brunsen    Aug 93    OS/2 User Group

Memo soliciting reactions to the proposal of a OS/2 User Group. This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an IAB standard of any kind.


1500   IAB       Aug 93     Internet Official Protocol Standards

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Activities Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Mary Kennedy
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail:  MKENNEDY@ISI.EDU























Kennedy                      Informational                     [Page 22]

