





Network Working Group                                         J. Elliott
Request for Comments: 1699                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 1600-1699

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1600
   through RFCs 1699.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1699    Elliott      Jan 97   Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1698    Furniss      Oct 94   Octet Sequences for Upper-Layer OSI
                              to Support Basic Communications
                              Applications

This document states particular octet sequences that comprise the OSI
upper-layer protocols (Session, Presentation and ACSE) when used to
support applications with "basic communications requirements".  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.







Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1697    Brower       Aug 94   Relational Database Management System
                              (RDBMS) Management Information Base
                              (MIB) using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing relational
database (RDBMS) implementations.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1696    Barnes       Aug 94   Modem Management Information Base (MIB)
                              using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing dial-up
modems and similar dial-up devices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1695    Ahmed        Aug 94   Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for ATM Management Version 8.0
                              using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes objects used for managing ATM-based interfaces,
devices, networks and services.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1694    Brown        Aug 94   Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for SMDS Interfaces using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing objects for SMDS access
interfaces.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1693    Connolly     Nov 94   An Extension to TCP : Partial Order
                              Service

This RFC introduces a new transport mechanism for TCP based upon partial
ordering.  The aim is to present the concepts of partial ordering and
promote discussions on its usefulness in network communications.  This
memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1692    Cameron      Aug 94   Transport Multiplexing Protocol (TMux)

This RFC documents the extended TACACS protocol use by the Cisco Systems
terminal servers.  This same protocol is used by the University of
Minnesota's distributed authentication system.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1691    Turner       Aug 94   The Document Architecture for the
                              Cornell Digital Library

This memo defines an architecture for the storage and retrieval of the
digital representations for books, journals, photographic images, etc.,
which are collected in a large organized digital library.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1690    Huston       Aug 94   Introducing the Internet Engineering
                              and Planning Group (IEPG)

This memo introduces the IEPG to the Internet Community.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1689    Foster       Aug 94   A Status Report on Networked Information
                              Retrieval: Tools and Groups

The purpose of this report is to increase the awareness of Networked
Information Retrieval by bringing together in one place information
about the various networked information retrieval tools, their
developers, interested organisations, and other activities that relate
to the production, dissemination, and support of NIR tools.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1688    Simpson      Aug 94   IPng Mobility Considerations

This RFC specifies criteria related to mobility for consideration in
design and selection of the Next Generation of IP.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1687    Fleischman   Aug 94   A Large Corporate User's View of IPng

The goal of this paper is to examine the implications of IPng from the
point of view of Fortune 100 corporations which have heavily invested in
TCP/IP technology in order to achieve their (non-computer related)
business goals.This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1686    Vecchi       Aug 94   IPng Requirements: A Cable Television
                              Industry Viewpoint

This paper provides comments on topics related to the IPng requirements
and selection criteria from a cable television industry viewpoint.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1685    Alvestrand   Aug 94   Writing X.400 O/R Names

There is a need for human beings who use X.400 systems to be able to
write down O/R names in a uniform way.  This memo is a discussion of
this topic.  This memo provides information for the Internet Community.
It does not specify an Internet Standard of any kind.


1684    Jurg         Aug 94   Introduction to White Pages Services
                              based on X.500

The document provides an introduction to the international ITU-T
(formerly CCITT) X.500 and ISO 9594 standard, which is particularly
suited for providing an integrated local and global electronic White
Pages Service.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1683    Clark        Aug 94   Multiprotocol Interoperability In IPng

In this document, we identify several features that affect a protocol's
ability to operate in a multiprotocol environment and propose the
incorporation of these features into IPng.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.








Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1682    Bound        Aug 94   IPng BSD Host Implementation Analysis

This IPng white paper, IPng BSD Host Implementation Analysis, was
submitted to the IPng Directorate to provide a BSD host point of
reference to assist with the engineering considerations during the IETF
process to select an IPng proposal.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1681    Bellovin     Aug 94   On Many Addresses per Host

This document was submitted to the IETF IPng area in response to RFC
1550.This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1680    Bradziunas   Aug 94   IPng Support for ATM Services

This white paper describes engineering considerations for IPng as
solicited by RFC 1550 [1]. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1679    Green        Aug 94   HPN Working Group Input to the IPng
                              Requirements Solicitation

The purpose of this document is to provide what the HPN working group
perceives as requirements for an IPng protocol set.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1678    Britton      Aug 94   IPng Requirements of Large Corporate
                              Networks

This draft summarizes some of the requirements of large corporate
networks for the next generation of the Internet protcol suite.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.










Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1677    Adamson      Aug 94   Tactical Radio Frequency Communication
                              Requirments for IPng

This paper describes requirements for Internet Protocol next generation
(IPng) candidates with respect to their application to military tactical
radio frequency (RF) communication networks.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1676    Ghiselli     Aug 94   INFN Requirements for an IPng

 With this paper we would like to emphasize the key points that we would
to consider if charged with IPng plan.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1675    Bellovin     Aug 94   Security Concerns for IPng

A number of the candidates for IPng have some features that are somewhat
worrisome from a security perspective.  While it is not necessary that
IPng be an improvement over IPv4, it is mandatory that it not make
things worse.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1674    Taylor       Aug 94   A Cellular Industry View of IPng

This is a draft of the requirements for IPng as envisioned by
representatives of the Cellular Digital Packet Data (CDPD) consortium of
service providers.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1673    Skelton      Aug 94   Electric Power Research Institute
                              Comments on IPng

This document was submitted to the IETF IPng area in response to RFC
1550.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.










Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1672    Brownless    Aug 94   Accounting Requirements for IPng

This white paper discusses accounting requirements for IPng. It
recommends that all IPng packets carry accounting tags, which would vary
in size.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1671    Carpenter    Aug 94   IPng White Paper on Transition and Other
                              Considerations

This white paper outlines some general requirements for IPng in selected
areas.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1670    Heagerty     Aug 94   Input to IPng Engineering Considerations

This white paper expresses some personal opinions on IPng engineering
considerations, based on experience with DECnet Phase V transition.  It
suggests breaking down the IPng decisions and transition tasks into
smaller parts so they can be tackled early by the relevant experts.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1669    Curran       Aug 94   Market Viability as a IPng Criteria

"Viability in the Marketplace" is an important requirement for any IPng
candidate and this paper is an attempt to summarize some important
factors in determing market viability of IPng proposals.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1668    Estrin       Aug 94   Unified Routing Requirements for IPng

The document provides requirements on the IPng from the perspective of
the Unified Routing Architecture, as described in RFC 1322.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.










Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1667    Symington    Aug 94   Modeling and Simulation Requirements for
                              IPng

This white paper summarizes the Distributed Interactive Simulation
environment that is under development, with regard to its real-time
nature, scope and magnitude of networking requirements.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1666    Kielczewski  Aug 94   Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for SNA NAUs using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the configuration,
monitoring and control of Physical Units (PUs) and Logical Units (LUs)
in an SNA environment.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1665    Kielczewski  Jul 94   Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for SNA NAUs using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the configuration,
monitoring and control of Physical Units (PUs) and Logical Units (LUs)
in an SNA environment.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1664    Allocchio    Aug 94   Using the Internet DNS to Distribute
                              RFC1327 Mail Address Mapping Tables

This memo defines how to store in the Internet Domain Name System the
mapping information needed by e-mail gateways and other tools to map
RFC822 domain names into X.400 O/R names and vice versa.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1663    Rand         Jul 94   PPP Reliable Transmission

This document defines a method for negotiating and using Numbered-Mode,
as defined by ISO 7776 [2], to provide a reliable serial link.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]







Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1662    Simpson      Jul 94   PPP in HDLC-Like Framing

This document describes the use of HDLC-like framing for PPP
encapsulated packets.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1661    Simpson      Jul 94   The Ponit-to-Point Protocol (PPP)

This document defines the PPP organization and methodology, and the PPP
encapsulation, together with an extensible option negotiation mechanism
which is able to negotiate a rich assortment of configuration parameters
and provides additional management functions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1660    Stewart      Jul 94   Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              Parallel-printer-like Hardware Devices
                              using SMIv2

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of Parallel-printer-
like devices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1659    Stewart      Jul 94   Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              RS-232-like Hardware Devices using SMIv2

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of RS-232-like
devices. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1658    Stewart      Jul 94   Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              Character Stream Devices using SMIv2

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of character stream
devices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]











Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1657    Willis       Jul 94   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                              Fourth Version of the Border Gateway
                              Protocol (BGP-4) using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing the Border
Gateway Protocol Version 4 or lower [1, 2].  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1656    Traina       Jul 94   BGP-4 Protocol Document Roadmap and
                              Implementation Experience

Border Gateway Protocol v4 (BGP-4) [1] is an inter-Autonomous System
routing protocol.  It is built on experience gained with BGP as defined
in RFC-1267 [2] and BGP usage in the connected Internet as described in
RFC-1268 [3].  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1655    Rekhter      Jul 94   Application of the Border Gateway
                              Protocol in the Internet

This document, together with its companion document, "A Border Gateway
Protocol 4 (BGP-4)", define an inter-autonomous system routing protocol
for the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1654    Rekhter      Jul 94   A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)

This document defines an inter-autonomous system routing protocol for
the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1653    Klensin      Jul 94   SMTP Service Extension for Message Size
                              Declaration

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby an SMTP
client and server may interact to give the server an opportunity to
decline to accept a message (perhaps temporarily) based on the client's
estimate of the message size.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1652    Klensin      Jul 94   SMTP Service Extension for
                              8bit-MIMEtransport

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby an SMTP
content body consisting of text containing octets outside of the US-
ASCII octet range (hex 00-7F) may be relayed using SMTP.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1651    Klensin      Jul 94   SMTP Service Extensions

This memo defines a framework for extending the SMTP service by defining
a means whereby a server SMTP can inform a client SMTP as to the service
extensions it supports.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1650    Kastenholz   Aug 94   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                              Ethernet-like Interface Types using
                              SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing ethernet-like objects.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1649    Hagens       Jul 94   Operational Requirements for X.400
                              Management Domains in the GO-MHS
                              Community

The goal of this document is to unite regionally operated X.400 services
on the various continents into one GO-MHS Community (as seen from an
end-user's point of view).  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1648    Cargille     Jul 94   Postmaster Convention for X.400
                              Operations

This paper extends this concept to X.400 mail domains which have
registered RFC 1327 mapping rules, and which therefore appear to have
normal RFC822-style addresses.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1647    Kelly        Jul 94   TN3270 Enhancements

This document describes a protocol that more fully supports 3270 devices
than do the existing tn3270 practices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1646    Graves       Jul 94   TN3270 Extensions for LUname and
                              Printer Selection

This document describes protocol extensions to TN3270.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1645    Gwinn        Jul 94   Simple Network Paging Protocol -
                              Version 2

This RFC suggests a simple way for delivering both alphanumeric and
numeric pages (one-way) to radio paging terminals.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1644    Braden       Jul 94   T/TCP -- TCP Extensions for Transactions
                              Functional Specification

This memo specifies T/TCP, an experimental TCP extension for efficient
transaction-oriented (request/response) service.  This memo describes an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1643    Kastenholz   Jul 94   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                              Ethernet-like Interface Types

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing ethernet-like objects.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1642    Goldsmith    Jul 94   A Mail-Safe Transformation Format of
                              Unicode

This document describes a new transformation format of Unicode that
contains only 7-bit ASCII characters and is intended to be readable by
humans in the limiting case that the document consists of characters
from the US-ASCII repertoire.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.



Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1641    Goldsmith    Jul 94   Using Unicode with MIME

This document specifies the usage of Unicode within MIME.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1640    Crocker      Jun 94   The Process for Organization of Internet
                              Standards Working Group (POISED)

This report, originally prepared in January 1993 provides a summary of
the POISED WG, starting from the events leading to the formation of the
WG to the end of 1992.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1639    Piscitello   Jun 94   FTP Operation Over Big Address Records
                              (FOOBAR)

This RFC specifies a method for assigning addresses other than 32-bit
IPv4 addresses to data ports through the specification of a "long Port
(LPRT)" command and "Long Passive (LPSV)" reply, each having as its
argument a <long-host-port>, which allows for additional address
families, variable length network addresses and variable length port
numbers.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


1638    Baker        Jun 94   PPP Bridging Control Protocol (BCP)

This document defines the Network Control Protocol for establishing and
configuring Remote Bridging for PPP links.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1637    Manning      Jun 94   DNS NSAP Resource Records

This document defines the format of one new Resource Record (RR) for the
DNS for domain name-to-NSAP mapping.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.













Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1636    Braden       Jun 94   Report of IAB Workshop on Security in
                              the Internet Architecture

This document is a report on an Internet architecture workshop,
initiated by the IAB and held at USC Information Sciences Institute on
February 8-10, 1994.  This workshop generally focused on security issues
in the Internet architecture.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1635    Deutsch      May 94   How to Use Anonymous FTP

This document provides information for the novice Internet user about
using the File Transfer Protocol (FTP).  It explains what FTP is, what
anonymous FTP is, and what an anonymous FTP archive site is.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1634    Allen        May 94   Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media
                              (IPXWAN)

This document describes how Novell IPX operates over various WAN media.
Specifically, it describes the common "IPX WAN" protocol Novell uses to
exchange necessary router to router information prior to exchanging
standard IPX routing information and traffic over WAN datalinks.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1633    Braden       Jun 94   Integrated Services in the Internet
                              Architecture: an Overview

This memo discusses a proposed extension to the Internet architecture
and protocols to provide integrated services, i.e., to support real-time
as well as the current non-real-time service of IP.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.












Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1632    Getchell     May 94   A Revised Catalog of Available X.500
                              Implementations

This document is the result of a survey that gathered new or updated
descriptions of currently available implementations of X.500, including
commercial products and openly available offerings. This document is a
revision of RFC 1292.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1631    Egevang      May 94   The IP Network Address Translator (NAT)

This memo proposes another short-term solution, address reuse, that
complements CIDR or even makes it unnecessary. The address reuse
solution is to place Network Address Translators (NAT) at the borders of
stub domains.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1630    Berners-Lee  Jun 94   Universal Resource Identifiers in WWW

This document defines the syntax used by the World-Wide Web initiative
to encode the names and addresses of objects on the Internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1629    Colella      May 94   Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in
                              the Internet

This paper provides guidelines for allocating NSAP addresses in the
Internet.  The guidelines provided in this paper have been the basis for
initial deployment of CLNP in the Internet, and have proven very
valuable both as an aid to scaling of CLNP routing, and for address
administration.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1628    Case         May 94   UPS Management Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing uninterruptible power supply
(UPS) systems.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1627    Lear         Jul 94   Network 10 Considered Harmful
                              (Some Practices Shouldn't be Codified)

This document restates the arguments for maintaining a unique address
space.  Concerns for Internet architecture and operations, as well as
IETF procedure, are explored.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1626    Atkinson     May 94   Default IP MTU for use over ATM AAL5

There are a number of good reasons to have a reasonably large default
MTU value for IP over ATM AAL5.  This paper presents the default IP MIU
for use over ATM AAL5.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1625    St. Pierre   Jun 94   WAIS over Z39.50-1988

The purpose of this memo is to initiate a discussion for a migration
path of the WAIS technology from Z39.50-1988 Information Retrieval
Service Definitions and Protocol Specification for Library Applications
[1] to Z39.50-1992 [2] and then to Z39.50-1994 [3].  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1624    Rijsinghani  May 94   Computation of the Internet Checksum
                              via Incremental Update

This memo describes an updated technique for incremental computation of
the standard Internet checksum.  It updates the method described in RFC
1141.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1623    Kastenholz   May 94   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                              Ethernet-like Interface Types

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing ethernet-like objects.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1622    Francis      May 94   Pip Header Processing

The purpose of this RFC and the companion RFC "Pip Near-term
Architecture" are to record the ideas (good and bad) of Pip.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1621    Francis      May 94   Pip Near-term Architecture

The purpose of this RFC and the companion RFC "Pip Header Processing"
are to record the ideas (good and bad) of Pip.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1620    Braden       May 94   Internet Architecture Extensions for
                              Shared Media

This memo discusses alternative approaches to extending the Internet
architecture to eliminate some or all unnecessary hops.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1619    Simpson      May 94   PPP over SONET/SDH

This document describes the use of PPP over Synchronous Optical Network
(SONET) and Synchronous Digital Heirarchy (SDH) circuits.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1618    Simpson      May 94   PPP over ISDN

This document describes the use of PPP over Integrated Services Digital
Network (ISDN) switched circuits.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1617    Barker       May 94   Naming and Structuring Guidelines for
                              X.500 Directory Pilots

This document defines a number of naming and structuring guidelines
focused on White Pages usage. Alignment to these guidelines is
recommended for directory pilots.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.





Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1616    RARE WG-MSG  May 94   A report by the RARE Task Force on
                              X.400(1988) of the RARE Working Group on
                              Mail & Messaging

The report documents the results of a task force on X.400(1988)
deployment of the RARE Mails and Messaging Work Group during the period
from November 1992 until October 1993.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1615    Houttuin     May 94   Migrating from X.400(84) to X.400(88)

This document compares X.400(88) to X.400(84) and describes what
problems can be anticipated in the migration, especially considering the
migration from the existing X.400(84) infrastructure created by the
COSINE MHS project to an X.400(88) infrastructure.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1614    Adie         May 94   Network Access to Multimedia Information

This report summarises the requirements of research and academic network
users for network access to multimedia information.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1613    Foster       May 94   cisco Systems X.25 over TCP (XOT)

This memo documents a method of sending X.25 packets over IP internets
by encapsulating the X.25 Packet Level in TCP packets.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1612    Austein      May 94   DNS Resolver MIB Extensions

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes a set of extensions which instrument DNS
resolver functions.  This memo was produced by the DNS working group.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1611    Austein      May 94   DNS Server MIB Extensions

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes a set of extensions which instrument DNS name
server functions.  This memo was produced by the DNS working group.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1610    I.A.B        Jul 94   INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1609    Mansfield    Mar 94   Charting Networks in the X.500 Directory

This document presents a model in which a communication network with all
its related details and descriptions can be represented in the X.500
Directory.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


1608    Johannsen    Mar 94   Representing IP Information in the X.500
                              Directory

This document describes the objects necessary to include information
about IP networks and IP numbers in the X.500 Directory. It extends the
work "Charting networks in the X.500 Directory" [1] where a general
framework is presented for representing networks in the Directory by
applying it to IP networks.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.


1607    Cerf         Apr 94   A VIEW FROM THE 21ST CENTURY

This document is a composition of letters discussing a possible future.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.











Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1606    Onion        Apr 94   A Historical Perspective On The Usage Of
                              IP Version 9

This paper reviews the usages of the old IP version protocol. It
considers some of its successes and its failures.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1605    Shakespeare  Apr 94   SONET to Sonnet Translation

Because Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) transmits data in frames of
bytes, it is fairly easy to envision ways to compress SONET frames to
yield higher bandwidth over a given fiber optic link.  This memo
describes a particular method, SONET Over Novel English Translation
(SONNET).  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1604    Brown        Mar 94   Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for Frame Relay Service

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the Frame Relay Service.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1603    Huizer       Mar 94   IETF Working Group
                              Guidelines and Procedures

This document describes the guidelines and procedures for formation and
operation of IETF working groups. It describes the formal relationship
between IETF participants WG and the Internet Engineering Steering Group
(IESG).  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1602    I.A.B.       Mar 94   The Internet Standards Process --
                              Revision 2

This document is a revision of RFC 1310, which defined the official
procedures for creating and documenting Internet Standards.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.






Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 1699                  Summary of 1600-1699              January 1997


1601    Huitema      Mar 94   Charter of the Internet Architecture
                              Board (IAB)

This memo documents the composition, selection, roles, and organization
of the Internet Architecture Board and its subsidiary organizations.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1600    I.A.B.       Mar 94   INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Josh Elliott
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: elliott@isi.edu





















Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 21]

