





Network Working Group                                         J. Elliott
Request for Comments: 1899                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 1800-1899

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1800
   through RFCs 1899.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1899    Elliott      Jan 97   Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1898    Eastlake     Feb 96   CyberCash Credit Card Protocol
                              Version 0.8

This document covers only the current CyberCash system which is one of
the few operational systems in the rapidly evolving area of Internet
payments.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1897    Hinden       Jan 96   IPv6 Testing Address Allocation

This document describes an allocation plan for IPv6 addresses to be used
in testing IPv6 prototype software.  This document specifies an
Experimental protocol for the Internet community.


1896    Resnick      Feb 96   The text/enriched MIME Content-type

This document defines one particular type of MIME data, the
text/enriched MIME type.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1895    Levinson     Feb 96   The Application/CALS-1840 Content-type

This memorandum provides guidelines for using the United States
Department of Defense Military Standard MIL-STD-1840, "Automated
Interchange of Technical Information," with the Internet electronic mail
standards, RFC 822 and RFC 1521.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1894    Moore        Jan 96   An Extensible Message Format for
                              Delivery Status Notifications

This memo defines a MIME content-type that may be used by a message
transfer agent (MTA) or electronic mail gateway to report the result of
an attempt to deliver a message to one or more recipients.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1893    Vaudreuil    Jan 96   Enhanced Mail System Status Codes

There currently is not a standard mechanism for the reporting of mail
system errors except for the limited set offered by SMTP and the system
specific text descriptions sent in mail messages.  There is a pressing
need for a rich machine readable status code for use in delivery status
notifications [DSN].  This document proposes a new set of status codes
for this purpose.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1892    Vaudreuil    Jan 96   The Multipart/Report Content Type
                              for the Reporting of Mail System
                              Administrative Messages

The Multipart/Report MIME content-type is a general "family" or
"container" type for electronic mail reports of any kind. Although this
memo defines only the use of the Multipart/Report content-type with
respect to delivery status reports, mail processing programs will
benefit if a single content-type is used to for all kinds of reports.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1891    Moore        Jan 96   SMTP Service Extension for Delivery
                              Status Notifications

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service, which allows an SMTP
client to specify (a) that delivery status notifications (DSNs) should
be generated under certain conditions, (b) whether such notifications
should return the contents of the message, and (c) additional
information, to be returned with a DSN, that allows the sender to
identify both the recipient(s) for which the DSN was issued, and the
transaction in which the original message was sent.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1890    A.V.T.W.G.   Jan 96   RTP Profile for Audio and Video
                              Conferences with Minimal Control

This memo describes a profile for the use of the real-time transport
protocol (RTP), version 2, and the associated control protocol, RTCP,
within audio and video multiparticipant conferences with minimal
control.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1889    A.V.T.W.G.   Jan 96   RTP: A Transport Protocol for
                              Real-Time Applications

This memorandum describes RTP, the real-time transport protocol. RTP
provides end-to-end network transport functions suitable for
applications transmitting real-time data, such as audio, video or
simulation data, over multicast or unicast network services.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1888    Bound        Aug 96   OSI NSAPs and IPv6

This document recommends that network implementors who have planned or
deployed an OSI NSAP addressing plan, and who wish to deploy or
transition to IPv6, should redesign a native IPv6 addressing plan to
meet their needs.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.


1887    Rekhter      Dec 95   An Architecture for IPv6 Unicast
                              Address Allocation

This document provides an architecture for allocating IPv6 [1] unicast
addresses in the Internet.  This document provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1886    Thomson      Dec 95   DNS Extensions to support IP version 6

This document defines the changes that need to be made to the Domain
Name System to support hosts running IP version 6 (IPv6).  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1885    Conta        Dec 95   Internet Control Message Protocol
                              (ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol
                              Version 6 (IPv6)

This document specifies a set of Internet Control Message Protocol
(ICMP) messages for use with version 6 of the Internet Protocol (IPv6).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1884    Hinden       Dec 95   IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture

This specification defines the addressing architecture of the IP Version
6 protocol [IPV6].  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1883    Deering      Dec 95   Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
                              Specification

This document specifies version 6 of the Internet Protocol (IPv6), also
sometimes referred to as IP Next Generation or IPng.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1882    Hancock      Dec 95   The 12-Days of Technology Before
                              Christmas

This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1881    IAB & IESG   Dec 95   IPv6 Address Allocation Management

The IPv6 address space will be managed by the IANA for the good of the
Internet community, with advice from the IAB and the IESG, by delegation
to the regional registries.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1880    I.A.B.       Nov 95   INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1879    Manning      Jan 96   Class A Subnet Experiment
                              Results and Recommendations

This memo documents some experiences with the RFC 1797 [1] subnet A
experiment (performed by the Net39 Test Group (see credits)) and
provides a number of recommendations on future direction for both the
Internet Registries and the Operations community.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1878    Pummill      Dec 95   Variable Length Subnet Table For IPv4

This memo clarifies issues surrounding subnetting IP networks by
providing a standard subnet table.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.











Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1877    Cobb         Dec 95   PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol
                              Extensions for Name Server Addresses

This document extends the NCP for establishing and configuring the
Internet Protocol over PPP [2], defining the negotiation of primary and
secondary Domain Name System (DNS) [3] and NetBIOS Name Server (NBNS)
[4] addresses.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1876    Davis        Jan 96   A Means for Expressing Location
                              Information in the Domain Name System

This memo defines a new DNS RR type for experimental purposes.  This RFC
describes a mechanism to allow the DNS to carry location information
about hosts, networks, and subnets.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.


1875    Berge        Dec 95   UNINETT PCA Policy Statements

This document provides information about policy statements submitted by
the UNINETT Policy Certification Authority (UNINETT PCA).  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1874    Levinson     Dec 95   SGML Media Types

This document proposes new media sub-types of Text/SGML and
Application/SGML.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.


1873    Levinson     Dec 95   Message/External-Body Content-ID
                              Access Type

The existing MIME Content-Type Message/External-Body access-types allow
a MIME entity (body-part) to refer to an object that is not in the
message by specifying how to access that object.  The Content-ID access
method described in this document provides the capability to refer to an
object within the message.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.








Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1872    Levinson     Dec 95   The MIME Multipart/Related Content-type

The Multipart/Related content-type provides a common mechanism for
representing objects that are aggregates of related MIME body parts.
This document defines the Multipart/Related content-type and provides
examples of its use.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.


1871    Postel       Nov 95   Addendum to RFC 1602 --
                              Variance Procedure

This document describes a modification to the IETF procedures to allow
an escape from a situation where the existing procedures are not working
or do not seem to apply.  This document specifies an Internet Best
Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion
and suggestions for improvements.


1870    Klensin      Nov 95   SMTP Service Extension for Message
                              Size Declaration

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby an SMTP
client and server may interact to give the server an opportunity to
decline to accept a message (perhaps temporarily) based on the client's
estimate of the message size.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1869    Klensin      Nov 95   SMTP Service Extensions

This memo defines a framework for extending the SMTP service by defining
a means whereby a server SMTP can inform a client SMTP as to the service
extensions it supports.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1868    Malkin       Nov 95   ARP Extension - UNARP

This document specifies a trivial modification to the ARP mechanism, not
the packet format, which allows a node to announce that it is leaving
the network and that all other nodes should modify their ARP tables
accordingly.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1867    Nebel        Nov 95   Form-based File Upload in HTML

Since file-upload is a feature that will benefit many applications, this
proposes an extension to HTML to allow information providers to express
file upload requests uniformly, and a MIME compatible representation for
file upload responses.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for
the Internet community.


1866    Berners-Lee  Nov 95   Hypertext Markup Language - 2.0

This document defines a HTML 2.0 (to distinguish it from the previous
informal specifications).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1865    Houser       Jan 96   EDI Meets the Internet: Frequently Asked
                              Questions about Electronic Data
                              Interchange (EDI) on the Internet

This memo is targeted towards the EDI community that is unfamiliar with
the Internet, including EDI software developers, users, and service
providers.  The memo introduces the Internet and assumes a basic
knowledge of EDI.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1864    Myers        Oct 95   The Content-MD5 Header Field

This memo specifies an optional header field, Content-MD5, for use with
MIME-conformant messages.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1863    Haskin       Oct 95   A BGP/IDRP Route Server alternative to a
                              full mesh routing

This document describes the use and detailed design of Route Servers for
dissemination of routing information among BGP/IDRP speaking routers.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.













Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1862    McCahill     Nov 95   Report of the IAB Workshop on Internet
                              Information Infrastructure,
                              October 12-14, 1994

This document is a report on an Internet architecture workshop,
initiated by the IAB and held at MCI on October 12-14, 1994.  This
workshop generally focused on aspects of the information infrastructure
on the Internet.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1861    Gwinn        Oct 95   Simple Network Paging Protocol -
                              Version 3 - Two-Way Enhanced

This RFC suggests a simple way for delivering wireless messages, both
one and two-way, to appropriate receiving devices.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1860    Pummill      Oct 95   Variable Length Subnet Table For IPv4

This document itemizes the potential values for IPv4 subnets.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1859    Pouffary     Oct 95   ISO Transport Class 2 Non-use of
                              Explicit Flow Control over
                              TCP RFC1006 extension

This document is an extension to STD35, RFC1006, a standard for the
Internet community. The document does not duplicate the protocol
definitions contained in RFC1006 and in International Standard ISO 8073.
It supplements that information with the description of how to implement
ISO Transport Class 2 Non-use of Explicit Flow Control on top of TCP.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.













Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1858    Ziemba       Oct 95   Security Considerations for
                              IP Fragment Filtering

IP fragmentation can be used to disguise TCP packets from IP filters
used in routers and hosts. This document describes two methods of attack
as well as remedies to prevent them.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1857    Lambert      Oct 95   A Model for Common Operational
                              Statistics

This memo describes a model for operational statistics in the Internet.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1856    Clark        Shpt 95   The Opstat Client-Server Model for
                              Statistics Retrieval

This document defines a model and protocol for a set of tools which
could be used by NSPs and Network Operation Centers (NOCs) to share data
among themselves and with customers.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1855    Hambridge    Oct 95   Netiquette Guidelines

This document provides a minimum set of guidelines for Network Etiquette
(Netiquette) which organizations may take and adapt for their own use.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1854    Freed        Oct 95   SMTP Service Extension for
                              Command Pipelining

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby a server can
indicate the extent of its ability to accept multiple commands in a
single TCP send operation.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1853    Simpson      Oct 95   IP in IP Tunneling

This document discusses implementation techniques for using IP
Protocol/Payload number 4 Encapsulation for tunneling with IP Security
and other protocols.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1852    Metzger      Spt 95   IP Authentication using Keyed SHA

This document describes the use of keyed SHA with the IP Authentication
Header.  This document defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


1851    Karn         Spt 95   The ESP Triple DES Transform

This document describes the Triple DES-CBC security transform for the IP
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP).  This document defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1850    Baker        Nov 95   OSPF Version 2 Management
                              Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the Open Shortest Path First
Routing Protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1849    Never Issued.


1848    Crocker      Oct 95   MIME Object Security Services

This document defines MIME Object Security Services (MOSS), a protocol
that uses the multipart/signed and multipart/encrypted framework [7] to
apply digital signature and encryption services to MIME objects.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1847    Galvin       Oct 95   Security Multiparts for MIME:
                              Multipart/Signed and Multipart/Encrypted

This document defines a framework within which security services may be
applied to MIME body parts.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1846    Durand       Spt 95   SMTP 521 Reply Code

This memo defines a new Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) [1] reply
code, 521, which one may use to indicate that an Internet host does not
accept incoming mail.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for
the Internet community.


1845    Crocker      Spt 95   SMTP Service Extension
                              for Checkpoint/Restart

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby an
interrupted SMTP transaction can be restarted at a later time without
having to repeat all of the commands and message content sent prior to
the interruption.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.


1844    Huizer       Aug 95   Multimedia E-mail (MIME) User
                              Agent checklist

This document presents a checklist to facilitate evaluation of MIME
capable User Agents.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1843    Lee          Aug 95   HZ - A Data Format for Exchanging Files
                              of Arbitrarily Mixed Chinese and ASCII
                              characters

The content of this memo is identical to an article of the same title
written by the author on September 4, 1989.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1842    Wei          Aug 95   ASCII Printable Characters-Based Chinese
                              Character Encoding for Internet Messages

This document describes the encoding used in electronic mail [RFC822]
and network news [RFC1036] messages over the Internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1841    Chapman      Spt 95   PPP Network Control Protocol for
                              LAN Extension

Telecommunications infrastructure is improving to offer higher bandwidth
connections at lower cost. Access to the network is changing from modems
to more intelligent devices. This informational RFC discusses a PPP
Network Control Protocol for one such intelligent device. The protocol
is the LAN extension interface protocol.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1840    Never Issued.


1839    Never Issued.


1838    Kille        Aug 95   Use of the X.500 Directory to support
                              mapping between X.400 and RFC 822
                              Addresses

This document defines how to use directory to support the mapping
between X.400 O/R Addresses and mailboxes defined in RFC 1327 [2].  This
memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1837    Kille        Aug 95   Representing Tables and Subtrees in the
                              X.500 Directory

This document defines techniques for representing two types of
information mapping in the OSI Directory.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1836    Kille        Aug 95   Representing the O/R Address hierarchy
                              in the X.500 Directory Information Tree

This document defines a representation of the O/R Address hierarchy in
the Directory Information Tree [6, 1].  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.










Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1835    Deutsch      Aug 95   Architecture of the WHOIS++ service

This document describes WHOIS++, an extension to the trivial WHOIS
service described in RFC 954 to permit WHOIS-like servers to make
available more structured information to the Internet.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1834    Gargano      Aug 95   Whois and Network Information
                              Lookup Service Whois++

This memo describes new features for WHOIS.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1833    Srinivasan   Aug 95   Binding Protocols for ONC RPC Version 2

This document describes the binding protocols used in conjunction with
the ONC Remote Procedure Call (ONC RPC Version 2) protocols.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1832    Srinivasan   Aug 95   XDR: External Data Representation
                              Standard

This document describes the External Data Representation Standard (XDR)
protocol as it is currently deployed and accepted.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1831    Srinivasan   Aug 95   RPC: Remote Procedure Call Protocol
                              Specification Version 2

This document describes the ONC Remote Procedure Call (ONC RPC Version
2) protocol as it is currently deployed and accepted.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1830    Vaudreuil    Aug 95   SMTP Service Extensions for Transmission
                              of Large and Binary MIME Messages

This memo defines two extensions to the SMTP service.  The first service
enables a SMTP client and server to negotiate the use of an alternate
DATA command "BDAT" for efficiently sending large MIME messages.  The
second extension takes advantage of the BDAT command to permit the
negotiated sending of unencoded binary data.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.





Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1829    Karn         Aug 95   The ESP DES-CBC Transform

This document describes the DES-CBC security transform for the IP
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1828    Metzger      Aug 95   IP Authentication using Keyed MD5

This document describes the use of keyed MD5 with the IP Authentication
Header.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1827    Atkinson     Aug 95   IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)

This document describes the IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP).
ESP is a mechanism for providing integrity and confidentiality to IP
datagrams.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1826    Atkinson     Aug 95   IP Authentication Header

This document describes a mechanism for providing cryptographic
authentication for IPv4 and IPv6 datagrams.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1825    Atkinson     Aug 95   Security Architecture for the Internet
                              Protocol

This memo describes the security mechanisms for IP version 4 (IPv4) and
IP version 6 (IPv6) and the services that they provide.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1824    Danisch      Aug 95   The Exponential Security System TESS:
                              An Identity-Based Cryptographic Protocol
                              for Authenticated Key-Exchange
                              (E.I.S.S.-Report 1995/4)

This informational RFC describes the basic mechanisms and functions of
an identity based system for the secure authenticated exchange of
cryptographic keys, the generation of signatures, and the authentic
distribution of public keys.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1823    Howes        Aug 95   The LDAP Application Program Interface

This document defines a C language application program interface to the
lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP).  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1822    Lowe         Aug 95   A Grant of Rights to Use a Specific IBM
                              patent with Photuris

This Request for Comments records a grant by IBM Corporation to permit
the conditional free use of one of its patents.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1821    Borden       Aug 95   Integration of Real-time Services in an
                              IP-ATM Network Architecture

The purpose of this paper is to provide a clear statement of what issues
need to be addressed in interfacing the IP integrated services
environment with an ATM service environment so as to create a seamless
interface between the two in support of end users desiring real-time
networking services.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1820    Huizer       Aug 95   Multimedia E-mail (MIME) User Agent
                              Checklist

This document presents a checklist to facilitate evaluation of MIME
capable User Agents. Access to a MIME test-responder, that generates
test-messages is described.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1819    ST2 W.G.     Aug 95   Internet Stream Protocol Version 2 (ST2)
                              Protocol Specification - Version ST2+

This memo contains a revised specification of the Internet STream
Protocol Version 2 (ST2).  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1818    Postel       Aug 95   Best Current Practices

This document describes a new series of documents which describe best
current practices for the Internet community.  Documents in this series
carry the endorsement of the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).


1817    Rekhter      Aug 95   CIDR and Classful Routing

This document represents the IAB's (Internet Architecture Board)
evaluation of the current and near term implications of CIDR on
organizations that use Classful routing technology.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1816    F.N.C.       Aug 95   U.S. Government Internet Domain Names

This memo provides an update and clarification to RFC 1811.  This
document describes the registration policies for the top-level domain
".GOV".  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1815    Ohta         Jul 95   Character Sets ISO-10646 and
                              ISO-10646-J-1

For the practical use of ISO 10646, a lot of external profiling such as
restriction of characters, restriction of combination of characters and
addition of language information is necessary.  This memo provides
information on such profiling, along with charset names to each profiled
instance.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1814    Gerich       Jun 95   Unique Addresses are Good

The IAB suggests that while RFC 1597 establishes reserved IP address
space for the use of private networks which are isolated and will remain
isolated from the Internet, any enterprise which anticipates external
connectivity to the Internet should apply for a globally unique address
from an Internet registry or service provider.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1813    Callaghan    Jun 95   NFS Version 3 Protocol Specification

This paper describes the NFS version 3 protocol.  This paper is provided
so that people can write compatible implementations.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1812    Baker        Jun 95   Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers

This memo defines and discusses requirements for devices that perform
the network layer forwarding function of the Internet protocol suite.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1811    F.N.C.       Jun 95   U.S. Government Internet Domain Names

This document describes the registration policies for the top-level
domain ".GOV".  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1810    Touch        Jun 95   Report on MD5 Performance

This RFC addresses how fast MD5 can be implemented in software and
hardware, and whether it supports currently available IP bandwidth.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1809    Partridge    Jun 95   Using the Flow Label Field in IPv6

The purpose of this memo is to distill various opinions and suggestions
of the End-to-End Research Group regarding the handling of Flow Labels
into a set of suggestions for IPv6.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1808    Fielding     Jun 95   Relative Uniform Resource Locators

In situations where the base URL is well-defined and known to the parser
(human or machine), it is useful to be able to embed URL references
which inherit that context rather than re-specifying it in every
instance.  This document defines the syntax and semantics for such
Relative Uniform Resource Locators.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1807    Lasher       Jun 95   A Format for Bibliographic Records

This RFC defines a format for bibliographic records describing technical
reports.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1806    Troost       Jun 95   Communicating Presentation Information
                              in Internet Messages: The
                              Content-Disposition Heade

This memo provides a mechanism whereby messages conforming to the [RFC
1521] ("MIME") specification can convey presentational information.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1805    Rubin        Jun 95   Location-Independent Data/Software
                              Integrity Protocol

This memo describes a protocol for adding integrity assurance to files
that are distributed across the Internet.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1804    Mansfield    Jun 95   Schema Publishing in X.500 Directory

In this document we propose a solution using the existing mechanisms of
the directory [1] itself. We present a naming scheme for naming schema
objects and a meta-schema for storing schema objects in the directory.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1803    Wright       Jun 95   Recommendations for an X.500 Production
                              Directory Service

This document contains a set of basic recommendations for a country-
level X.500 DSA.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.












Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 1899                  Summary of 1800-1899              January 1997


1802    Alvestrand   Jun 95   Introducing Project Long Bud: Internet
                              Pilot Project for the Deployment of
                              X.500 Directory Information in Support
                              of X.400 Routing

This memo describes a proposed Internet Pilot Project that seeks to
prove the MHS-DS approach on a larger scale.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1801    Kille        Jun 95   X.400-MHS use of the X.500 Directory to
                              support X.400-MHS Routing

The key problem in routing is to map from an O/R Address onto an MTA
(next hop).  This shall be an MTA which in some sense is "nearer" to the
destination UA. This is done repeatedly until the message can be
directly delivered to the recipient UA.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1800    I.A.B.       Jul 95   INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Josh Elliott
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: elliott@isi.edu








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 20]

