





Network Working Group                                         J. Elliott
Request for Comments: 1999                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 1900-1999

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1900
   through RFCs 1999.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1999    Elliott      Jan 97   Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1998    Chen         Aug 96   An Application of the BGP Community
                              Attribute in Multi-home Routing

This document presents an application of the BGP community attribute [2]
in simplifying the implementation and configuration of routing policies
in the multi-provider Internet.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.








Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1997    Chandra      Aug 96   BGP Communities Attribute

This document describes an extension to BGP which may be used to pass
additional information to both neighboring and remote BGP peers.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1996    Vixie        Aug 96   A Mechanism for Prompt Notification of
                              Zone Changes (DNS NOTIFY)

This memo describes the NOTIFY opcode for DNS, by which a master server
advises a set of slave servers that the master's data has been changed
and that a query should be initiated to discover the new data.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1995    Ohta         Aug 96   Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS

This document proposes extensions to the DNS protocols to provide an
incremental zone transfer (IXFR) mechanism.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1994    Simpson      Aug 96   PPP Challenge Handshake Authentication
                              Protocol (CHAP)

This document defines a method for Authentication using PPP, which uses
a random Challenge, with a cryptographically hashed Response which
depends upon the Challenge and a secret key.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1993    Barbir       Aug 96   PPP Gandalf FZA Compression Protocol

This document describes the use of the Gandalf FZA data compression
algorithm [3] for compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1992    Castineyra   Aug 96   The Nimrod Routing Architecture

Nimrod is a scalable routing architecture designed to accommodate a
continually expanding and diversifying internetwork.  First suggested by
Noel Chiappa, the Nimrod architecture has undergone revision and
refinement through the efforts of the Nimrod working group of the IETF.
In this document, we present a detailed description of this
architecture.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1991    Atkins       Aug 96   PGP Message Exchange Formats

This document describes the format of "PGP files", i.e., messages that
have been encrypted and/or signed with PGP.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1990    Sklower      Aug 96   The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)

This document proposes a method for splitting, recombining and
sequencing datagrams across multiple logical data links.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1989    Simpson      Aug 96   PPP Link Quality Monitoring

This document defines a protocol for generating Link-Quality-Reports.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1988    McAnally     Aug 96   Conditional Grant of Rights to Specific
                              Hewlett-Packard Patents In Conjunction
                              With the Internet Engineering Task
                              Force's Internet-Standard Network
                              Management Framework

This grant is made to help facilitate inclusion of certain patented
search address technology covering network device mapping in IETF
standards-track Management Information Base (MIB) modules.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1987    Newman       Aug 96   Ipsilon's General Switch Management
                              Protocol Specification Version 1.1

The General Switch Management Protocol (GSMP), is a general purpose
protocol to control an ATM switch. GSMP allows a controller to establish
and release connections across the switch; add and delete leaves on a
point-to-multipoint connection; manage switch ports; request
configuration information; and request statistics.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.







Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1986    Polites      Aug 96   Experiments with a Simple File Transfer
                              Protocol for Radio Links using Enhanced
                              Trivial File Transfer Protocol (ETFTP)

This document is a description of the Enhanced Trivial File Transfer
Protocol (ETFTP). This protocol is an experimental implementation of the
NETwork BLock Transfer Protocol (NETBLT), RFC 998 [1], as a file
transfer application program.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.


1985    De Winter    Aug 96   SMTP Service Extension
                              for Remote Message Queue Starting

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby an SMTP
client and server may interact to give the server an opportunity to
start the processing of its queues for messages to go to a given host.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1984    I.A.B.       Aug 96   IAB and IESG Statement on Cryptographic
                              Technology and the Internet

The Internet Architecture Board (IAB) and the Internet Engineering
Steering Group (IESG), the bodies which oversee architecture and
standards for the Internet, are concerned by the need for increased
protection of international commercial transactions on the Internet, and
by the need to offer all Internet users an adequate degree of privacy.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1983    Malkin       Aug 96   Internet Users' Glossary

There are many networking glossaries in existence.  This glossary
concentrates on terms which are specific to the Internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1982    Elz          Aug 96   Serial Number Arithmetic

The DNS has long relied upon serial number arithmetic, a concept which
has never really been defined, certainly not in an IETF document, though
which has been widely understood.  This memo supplies the missing
definition.  It is intended to update RFC1034 and RFC1035.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1981    McCann       Aug 96   Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6

This document describes Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6.  It is
largely derived from RFC 1191, which describes Path MTU Discovery for IP
version 4.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1980    Seidman      Aug 96   A Proposed Extension to HTML :
                              Client-Side Image Maps

This document specifies an extension to the HTML language, referred to
as "Client-Side Image Maps," which resolves some limitations.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1979    Woods        Aug 96   PPP Deflate Protocol

This document describes the use of the PPP Deflate compression protocol
for compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1978    Rand         Aug 96   PPP Predictor Compression Protocol

This document describes the use of the Predictor data compression
algorithm for compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1977    Schryver     Aug 96   PPP BSD Compression Protocol

This document describes the use of the Unix Compress compression
protocol for compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.













Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1976    Schneider    Aug 96   PPP for Data Compression in Data
                              Circuit-Terminating Equipment (DCE)

This document defines a specific set of parameters for these protocols
and an LCP extension to define a standard way of using PPP for data
compression of serial data in Data Circuit-Terminating Equipment (DCE).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1975    Schremp      Aug 96   PPP Magnalink Variable Resource
                              Compression

The Magnalink Variable Resource Compression Algorithm (MVRCA) allows a
wide range of interoperable compression implementations whose
performance characteristics are a function of available CPU and memory
resources.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1974    Friend       Aug 96   PPP Stac LZS Compression Protocol

This document describes the use of the Stac LZS data compression
algorithm, with single or multiple compression histories, for
compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1973    Simpson      Jun 96   PPP in Frame Relay

This document describes the use of Frame Relay for framing PPP
encapsulated packets.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1972    Crawford     Aug 96   A Method for the Transmission of IPv6
                              Packets over Ethernet Networks

This memo specifies the frame format for transmission of IPv6 [IPV6]
packets and the method of forming IPv6 link-local addresses on Ethernet
networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1971    Thomson      Aug 96   IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration

This document specifies the steps a host takes in deciding how to
autoconfigure its interfaces in IP version 6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1970    Narten       Aug 96   Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6
                              (IPv6)

This document specifies the Neighbor Discovery protocol for IP Version
6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1969    Sklower      Jun 96   The PPP DES Encryption Protocol (DESE)

This document provides specific details for the use of the DES standard
[5, 6] for encrypting PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1968    Meyer        Jun 96   The PPP Encryption Control Protocol
                              (ECP)

This document defines a method for negotiating data encryption over PPP
links.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1967    Schneider    Aug 96   PPP LZS-DCP Compression Protocol
                              (LZS-DCP)

This document describes the use of the Stac LZS data compression
algorithm for compressing PPP encapsulated packets, using a DCP header
[6].  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1966    Bates        Jun 96   BGP Route Reflection
                              An alternative to full mesh IBGP

This document describes the use and design of a method known as "Route
Reflection" to alleviate the the need for "full mesh" IBGP.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1965    Traina       Jun 96   Autonomous System Confederations for BGP

This document describes an extension to BGP which may be used to create
a confederation of autonomous systems which is represented as one single
autonomous system to BGP peers external to the confederation.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1964    Linn         Jun 96   The Kerberos Version 5 GSS-API Mechanism

This specification defines protocols, procedures, and conventions to be
employed by peers implementing the Generic Security Service Application
Program Interface (as specified in RFCs 1508 and 1509) when using
Kerberos Version 5 technology (as specified in RFC 1510).  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1963    Schneider    Aug 96   PPP Serial Data Transport Protocol
                              (SDTP)

This document describes a new Network level protocol (from the PPP point
of view), PPP Serial Data Transport Protocol, that provides
encapsulation and an associated control protocol for transporting serial
data streams over a PPP link.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1962    Rand         Jun 96   The PPP Compression Control Protocol
                              (CCP)

This document defines a method for negotiating data compression over PPP
links.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1961    McMahon      Jun 96   GSS-API Authentication Method for SOCKS
                              Version 5

This document provides the specification for the SOCKS V5 GSS-API
authentication protocol, and defines a GSS-API-based encapsulation for
provision of integrity, authentication and optional confidentiality.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1960    Howes        Jun 96   A String Representation of LDAP
                              Search Filters

The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) [1] defines a network
representation of a search filter transmitted to an LDAP server.  Some
applications may find it useful to have a common way of representing
these search filters in a human-readable form.  This document defines a
human-readable string format for representing LDAP search filters.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1959    Howes        Jun 96   An LDAP URL Format

This document describes a format for an LDAP Uniform Resource Locator
which will allow Internet clients to have direct access to the LDAP
protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1958    Carpenter    Jun 96   Architectural Principles of the Internet

The Internet and its architecture have grown in evolutionary fashion
from modest beginnings, rather than from a Grand Plan. While this
process of evolution is one of the main reasons for the technology's
success, it nevertheless seems useful to record a snapshot of the
current principles of the Internet architecture. This is intended for
general guidance and general interest, and is in no way intended to be a
formal or invariant reference model.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1957    Nelson       Jun 96   Some Observations on Implementations
                              of the Post Office Protocol (POP3)

This memo provides information for the Internet community. This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1956    Engebretson  Jun 96   Registration in the MIL Domain

This RFC describes the policy for the registration of second level
domains under the ".MIL" domain.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1955    Hinden       Jun 96   New Scheme for Internet Routing and
                              Addressing (ENCAPS) for IPNG

This paper proposes a new scheme which I believe is a good medium term
solution to the routing and address problems of the internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1954    Newman       May 96   Transmission of Flow Labelled IPv4 on
                              ATM Data Links Ipsilon Version 1.0

This document specifies the manner for transmitting IPv4 datagrams over
an ATM data link, both in a default manner and in the presence of flow
labelling via Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol [IFMP].  This document
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1953    Newman       May 96   Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol
                              Specification for IPv4 Version 1.0

The Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol (IFMP), is a protocol for allowing
a node to instruct an adjacent node to attach a layer 2 label to a
specified IP flow.  This document provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1952    Deutsch      May 96   GZIP file format specification
                              version 4.3

This specification defines a lossless compressed data format that is
compatible with the widely used GZIP utility.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1951    Deutsch      May 96   DEFLATE Compressed Data Format
                              Specification version 1.3

This specification defines a lossless compressed data format that
compresses data using a combination of the LZ77 algorithm and Huffman
coding, with efficiency comparable to the best currently available
general-purpose compression methods.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1950    Deutsch      May 96   ZLIB Compressed Data Format
                              Specification version 3.3

This specification defines a lossless compressed data format.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.






Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1949    Ballarde     May 96   Scalable Multicast Key Distribution

This memo provides a scalable solution to the multicast key distribution
problem.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


1948    Bellovin     May 96   Defending Against Sequence Number
                              Attacks

IP spoofing attacks based on sequence number spoofing have become a
serious threat on the Internet (CERT Advisory CA-95:01).  While
ubiquitous crypgraphic authentication is the right answer, we propose a
simple modification to TCP implementations that should be a very
substantial block to the current wave of attacks.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1947    Spinellis    May 96   Greek Character Encoding for Electronic
                              Mail Messages

This document describes a standard encoding for electronic mail [RFC822]
containing Greek text and provides implementation guide-lines.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1946    Jackowski    May 96   Native ATM Support for ST2+

This memo describes a working implementation which enables applications
to directly invoke ATM services in the following environments: ATM to
internet, internet to ATM, and internet to internet across ATM.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1945    Berners-Lee  May 96   Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.0

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol
with the lightness and speed necessary for distributed, collaborative,
hypermedia information systems.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1944    Bradner      May 96   Benchmarking Methodology for Network
                              Interconnect Devices

This document discusses and defines a number of tests that may be used
to describe the performance characteristics of a network interconnecting
device.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1943    Jennings     May 96   Building an X.500 Directory Service
                              in the US

This document provides definition and recommends considerations that
must be undertaken to operate a X.500 Directory Service in the United
States.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1942    Raggett      May 96   HTML Tables

This specification extends HTML to support a wide variety of tables.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1941    Sellers      May 96   Frequently Asked Questions for Schools

The goal of this FYI document, produced by the Internet School
Networking (ISN) group in the User Services Area of the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF), is to act as an introduction to the
Internet for faculty, administration, and other school personnel in
primary and secondary schools.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1940    Estrin       May 96   Source Demand Routing: Packet Format and
                              Forwarding Specification (Version 1).

The purpose of SDRP is to support source-initiated selection of routes
to complement the route selection provided by existing routing protocols
for both inter-domain and intra-domain routes.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1939    Myers        May 96   Post Office Protocol - Version 3

The Post Office Protocol - Version 3 (POP3) is intended to permit a
workstation to dynamically access a maildrop on a server host in a
useful fashion.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1938    Haller       May 96   A One-Time Password System

This document describes a one-time password authentication system (OTP).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1937    Rekhter      May 96   "Local/Remote" Forwarding Decision in
                              Switched Data Link Subnetworks

This document describes extensions to the IP architecture that relaxes
these constraints, thus enabling the full utilization of the services
provided by SVC-based Data Link subnetworks.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1936    Touch       Apr 96    Implementing the Internet Checksum in
                              Hardware

This memo presents a techniques for efficiently implementing the
Internet Checksum in hardware. It includes PLD code for programming a
single, low cost part to perform checksumming at 1.26 Gbps.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1935    Quarterman   Apr 96   What is the Internet, Anyway?

This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1934    Smith        Apr 96   Ascend's Multilink Protocol Plus (MP+)

This document proposes an extension to the PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)
[1]. Multilink Protocol Plus (MP+) is a new control protocol for
managing multiple data links that are bundled by MP.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.





Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1933    Gilligan     Apr 96   Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts
                              and Routers

This document specifies IPv4 compatibility mechanisms that can be
implemented by IPv6 hosts and routers.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1932    Cole         Apr 96   IP over ATM: A Framework Document

It is hoped that this document, in classifying ATM approaches and issues
will help to focus the IP over ATM working group's direction.This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1931    Brownell     Apr 96   Dynamic RARP Extensions for
                              Automatic Network Address Acquisition

This memo describes extensions to the Reverse Address Resolution
Protocol (RARP [2]) and called Dynamic RARP (DRARP, pronounced D-RARP).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not define an Internet standard of any kind.


1930    Hawkinson    Mar 96   Guidelines for creation, selection, and
                              registration of an Autonomous System (AS)

This memo discusses when it is appropriate to register and utilize an
Autonomous System (AS), and lists criteria for such.  This document
specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community,
and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


1929    Leech        Mar 96   Username/Password Authentication for
                              SOCKS V5

The protocol specification for SOCKS Version 5 specifies a generalized
framework for the use of arbitrary authentication protocols in the
initial socks connection setup. This document describes one of those
protocols, as it fits into the SOCKS Version 5 authentication
"subnegotiation".  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1928    Leech        Mar 96   SOCKS Protocol Version 5

This memo describes a protocol that is an evolution of the previous
version of the protocol, version 4 [1]. This new protocol stems from
active discussions and prototype implementations.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1927    Rogers       Apr 96   Suggested Additional MIME Types for
                              Associating Documents

Seven new types of MIME types are suggested in this document.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1926    Eriksson     Apr 96   An Experimental Encapsulation of IP
                              Datagrams on Top of ATM

This RFC describes a method of encapsulating IP datagrams on top of
Acoustical Transmission Media (ATM).  This is a non-recommended
standard.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1925    Callon       Apr 96   The Twelve Networking Truths

This memo documents the fundamental truths of networking for the
Internet community. This memo does not specify a standard, except in the
sense that all standards must implicitly follow the fundamental truths.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1924    Elz          Apr 96   A Compact Representation of IPv6 Addresses

This document specifies a more compact representation of IPv6 addresses,
which permits encoding in a mere 20 bytes.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.












Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1923    Halpern      Mar 96   RIPv1 Applicability Statement for
                              Historic Status

RIP Version 1 [RFC-1058] has been declared an historic document.  This
Applicability statement provides the supporting motivation for that
declaration.  The primary reason, as described below, is the Classful
nature of RIPv1.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1922    Zhu          Mar 96   Chinese Character Encoding for Internet
                              Messages

This memo describes methods of transporting Chinese characters in
Internet services which transport text, such as electronic mail
[RFC-822], network news [RFC-1036], telnet [RFC-854] and the World Wide
Web [RFC-1866].  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1921    Dujonc       Mar 96   TNVIP Protocol

The goal of this document specifies a Telnet profile to support VIP
terminal emulation allowing the access to the BULL hosts applications
through a TCP/IP network.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1920    I.A.B.       Mar 96   INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1919    Chatel       Mar 96   Classical versus Transparent IP Proxies

This document explains "classical" and "transparent" proxy techniques
and attempts to provide rules to help determine when each proxy system
may be used without causing problems.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1918    Rekhter      Feb 96   Address Allocation for Private Internets

This document describes address allocation for private internets.  This
document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet
Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


1917    Nesser       Feb 96   An Appeal to the Internet Community to
                              Return Unused IP Networks (Prefixes)
                              to the IANA

This document is an appeal to the Internet community to return unused
address space, i.e. any block of consecutive IP prefixes, to the
Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) or any of the delegated
registries, for reapportionment.  This document specifies an Internet
Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


1916    Berkowitz    Feb 96   Enterprise Renumbering: Experience and
                              Information Solicitation

Because of the urgent need for, and substantial difficulty in,
renumbering IP networks, the PIER working group is compiling a series of
documents to assist sites in their renumbering efforts.  The intent of
these documents is to provide both educational and practical information
to the Internet community.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1915    Kastenholz   Feb 96   Variance for The PPP Connection Control
                              Protocol and The PPP Encryption Control
                              Protocol

The PPP Working group has developed two protocols, one to control
compression on PPP links; the Compression Control Protocol (CCP),
documented in draft-ietf-pppext-compression-04.txt. The second is the
Encryption Control Protocol (ECP), used to control encryption on serial
links, documented in draft-ietf-pppext-encryption-03.txt.  This document
specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community,
and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.









Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1914    Faltstrom    Feb 96   How to Interact with a Whois++ Mesh

In the Whois++ architecture [Deutsch94],[Weider94], mesh traversal is
done by the client, since each server 'refers' the client to the next
appropriate server(s).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1913    Weider       Feb 96   Architecture of the Whois++ Index Service

The authors describe an architecture for indexing in distributed
databases, and apply this to the WHOIS++ protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1912    Barr         Feb 96   Common DNS Operational and Configuration
                              Errors

This memo describes errors often found in both the operation of Domain
Name System (DNS) servers, and in the data that these DNS servers
contain.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1911    Vaudreuil    Feb 96   Voice Profiule of Internet Mail

The following document is a profile of the Internet standard MIME and
ESMTP protocols for use as a digital voice networking protocol.  This
memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1910    Waters       Feb 96   User-based Security Model for SNMPv2

In this administrative framework, a security model defines the
mechanisms used to achieve an administratively-defined level of security
for protocol interactions.  Although many such security models might be
defined, it is the purpose of this document, User-based Security Model
for SNMPv2, to define the first, and, as of this writing, only, security
model for this administrative framework.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1909    McClogherie  Feb 96   An Administrative Infrastructure for
                              SNMPv2

It is the purpose of this document, An Administrative Infrastructure for
SNMPv2, to define an administrative framework which realizes effective
management in a variety of configurations and environments.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.




Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1908    Case         Jan 96   Coexistence between Version 1 and
                              Version 2 of the Internet-standard
                              Network Management Framework

The purpose of this document is to describe coexistence between version
2 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework [1-6], termed
the SNMP version 2 framework (SNMPv2), and the original Internet-
standard Network Management Framework (SNMPv1>.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1907    Case         Jan 96   Management Information Base for Version
                              2 of the Simple Network Management
                              Protocol (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document to define managed objects which
describe the behavior of a SNMPv2 entity.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1906    Case         Jan 96   Transport Mappings for Version 2 of the
                              Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document to define how the SNMPv2 maps onto an
initial set of transport domains.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1905    Case         Jan 96   Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the
                              Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document, Protocol Operations for SNMPv2, to
define the operations of the protocol with respect to the sending and
receiving of the PDUs.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1904    Case         Jan 96   Conformance Statements for Version 2 of
                              the Simple Network Management Protocol
                              (SNMPv2)

It may be useful to define the acceptable lower-bounds of
implementation, along with the actual level of implementation achieved.
It is the purpose of this document to define the notation used for these
purposes.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1903    Case         Jan 96   Textual Conventions for Version 2 of the
                              Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document to define the initial set of textual
conventions available to all MIB modules.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1902    Case         Jan 96   Structure of Management Information for
                              Version 2 of the Simple Network
                              Management Protocol (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document, the Structure of Management
Information (SMI), to define that adapted subset, and to assign a set of
associated administrative values.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1901    Case         Jan 96   Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2

The purpose of this document is to define the Community-based
Administrative Framework for the SNMP version 2 framework (SNMPv2).
This document specifies an Experimental protocol for the Internet
community.


1900    Carpenter    Feb 96   Renumbering Needs Work

Hosts in an IP network are identified by IP addresses, and the IP
address prefixes of subnets are advertised by routing protocols.  A
change in such IP addressing information associated with a host or
subnet is known as "renumbering".  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.

Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Josh Elliott
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: elliott@isi.edu



Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 20]

