





Network Working Group                                         J. Elliott
Request for Comments: 1499                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 1400-1499

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1400
   through RFCs 1499.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1499    Elliott      Jan 97   Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1498    Saltzer      Aug 93   On the Naming and Binding of Network
                              Destinations

This brief paper offers a perspective on the subject of names of
destinations in data communication networks. It suggests two ideas:
First, it is helpful to distinguish among four different kinds of
objects that may be named as the destination of a packet in a network.
Second, the operating system concept of binding is a useful way to
describe the relations among the four kinds of objects.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.





Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1497    Reynolds     Aug 93   BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions

This RFC is a slight revision and extension of RFC-1048 by Philip
Prindeville, who should be credited with the original work in this memo.
This memo is a status report on the vendor information extensions used
in the Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP).


1496    Alverstrand  Aug 93   Rules for Downgrading Messages from
                              X.400/88 to X.400/84 When MIME
                              Content-Types are Present in the
                              Messages

This document describes how RFC-1328 must be modified in order to
provide adequate support for the scenarios:

                    SMTP(MIME) -> X.400(84)
                    X.400(84) -> SMTP(MIME)

It replaces chapter 6 of RFC-1328. The rest of RFC-1328 is NOT
obsoleted.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1495    Alverstrand  Aug 93   Mapping between X.400 and RFC-822
                              Message Bodies

Since the introduction of X.400(84), there has been work ongoing for
defining mappings between MHS and RFC-822.  The most recent work in this
area is RFC-1327 [3], which focuses primarily on translation of envelope
and headers.  This document is complimentary to RFC-1327 as it focuses
on translation of the message body.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1494    Alverstrand  Aug 93   Equivalences between 1988 X.400 and
                              RFC-822 Message Bodies

This document describes the content of the "IANA MHS/MIME Equivalence
table", and defines the initial configuration of this table.  Mappings
for new MIME content-types and/or X.400 body part types should be
registered with the IANA to minimize redundancy and promote
interoperability. [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1493    Decker       Jul 93   Definitions of Managed Objects
                              for Bridges

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular it defines objects for managing MAC bridges based on the IEEE
802.1D-1990 standard between Local Area Network (LAN) segments.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1492    Finseth      Jul 93   An Access Control Protocol, Sometimes
                              Called TACACS

This RFC documents the extended TACACS protocol use by the Cisco Systems
terminal servers.  This same protocol is used by the University of
Minnesota's distributed authentication system.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1491    Weider       Jul 93   A Survey of Advanced Usages of X.500

This document is the result of a survey asking people to detail their
advanced usages of X.500. It is intended to show how various
organizations are using X.500 in ways which extend the view of X.500 as
a "White Pages" service.  This RFC is a product of the Integrated
Directory Services Working Group of the Application and User Services
Areas of the IETF.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1490    Bradley      Jul 93   Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame
                              Relay

This memo describes an encapsulation method for carrying network
interconnect traffic over a Frame Relay backbone.  It covers aspects of
both Bridging and Routing.  Additionally, it describes a simple
fragmentation procedure for carrying large frames over a frame relay
network with a smaller MTU.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]












Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1489    Chernov      Jul 93   Registration of a Cyrillic Character Set

Though the proposed character set "koi8-r" is not currently an
international standard, there is very large user community (including
Relcom Net) supporting it.  Factually, "koi8-r" is de-facto standard for
Unix and global network applications in the former Soviet Union.  This
is the reason the Society of Unix User Groups (SUUG) believes "koi8-r"
should be registered.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1488    Howes        Jul 93   The X.500 String Representation of
                              Standard Attribute Syntaxes

This document defines the requirements that must be satisfied by
encoding rules used to render Directory attribute syntaxes into a form
suitable for use in the LDAP, then goes on to define the encoding rules
for the standard set of attribute syntaxes defined in [1,2] and [3].
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1487    Yeong        Jul 93   X.500 Lightweight Directory Access
                              Protocol

The protocol described in this document is designed to provide access to
the Directory while not incurring the resource requirements of the
Directory Access Protocol (DAP).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1486    Rose         Jul 93   An Experiment in Remote Printing

This memo describes a technique for "remote printing" using the Internet
mail infrastructure.  In particular, this memo focuses on the case in
which remote printers are connected to the international telephone
network.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1485    Kille        Jul 93   A String Representation of Distinguished
                              Names (OSI-DS 23 (v5))

When a distinguished name is communicated between to users not using a
directory protocol (e.g., in a mail message), there is a need to have a
user-oriented string representation of distinguished name.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1484    Kille        Jul 93   Using the OSI Directory to achieve
                              User Friendly Naming (OSI-DS 24 (v1.2))

This proposal sets out some conventions for representing names in a
friendly manner, and shows how this can be used to achieve really
friendly naming.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1483    Heinanen     Jul 93   Multiprotocol Encapsulation over ATM
                              Adaptation Layer 5

This memo describes two encapsulations methods for carrying network
interconnect traffic over ATM AAL5.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1482    Knopper      Jun 93   Aggregation Support in the NSFNET
                              Policy-Based Routing Database

This document describes plans for support of route aggregation, as
specified in the descriptions of Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)
[1] and the BGP-4 protocol [2], by the NSFNET Backbone Network Service.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1481    Huitema      Jul 93   IAB Recommendation for an Intermediate
                              Strategy to Address the Issue of Scaling

CIDR is proposed as an immediate term strategy to extend the life of the
current 32 bit IP address space.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1480    Cooper       Jun 93   The US Domain

This is a description of the US Top Level Domains on the Internet.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community. It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1479    Steenstrup   Jul 93   Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol
                              Specification: Version 1

We present the set of protocols and procedures that constitute Inter-
Domain Policy Routing (IDPR).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1478    Steenstrup   Jul 93   An Architecture for Inter-Domain Policy
                              Routing

We present an architecture for inter-domain policy routing (IDPR).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1477    Steenstrup   Jul 93   IDPR as a Proposed Standard

This document contains a discussion of inter-domain policy routing
(IDPR), including an overview of functionality and a discussion of
experiments.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.


1476    Ullman       Jun 93   RAP: Internet Route Access Protocol

This RFC describes an open distance vector routing protocol for use at
all levels of the internet, from isolated LANs to the major routers of
an international commercial network provider.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  It does not specify
an Internet standard.


1475    Ullman       Jun 93   TP/IX: The Next Internet

This memo presents the specification for version 7 of the Internet
Protocol, as well as version 7 of the TCP and the user datagram
protocol.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1474    Kastrenholz  Jun 93   The Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              the Bridge Network Control Protocol of
                              the Point-to-Point Protocol

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing the bridge
Network Control Protocol [10] on subnetwork interfaces using the family
of Point-to-Point Protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1473    Kastrenholz  Jun 93   The Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              the IP Network Control Protocol of
                              the Point-to-Point Protocol

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing the IP
Network Control Protocol on subnetwork interfaces using the family of
Point-to-Point Protocols [8, 9, 10, 11, & 12].  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1472    Kastrenholz  Jun 93   The Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              the Security Protocols of
                              the Point-to-Point Protocol

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing the Security
Protocols on subnetwork interfaces using the family of Point-to-Point
Protocols [8, 9, 10, 11, & 12].  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1471    Kastrenholz  Jun 93   The Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              the Link Control Protocol of
                              the Point-to-Point Protocol

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing the Link
Control Protocol and Link Quality Monitoring on subnetwork interfaces
that use the family of Point-to-Point Protocols [8, 9, 10, 11, & 12].
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1470    Enger        Jun 93   FYI on a Network Management Tool
                              Catalog: Tools for Monitoring and
                              Debugging TCP/IP Internets and
                              Interconnected Devices

The goal of this FYI memo is to provide an update to FYI 2, RFC 1147
[1], which provided practical information to site administrators and
network managers.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.








Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1469    Pusateri     Jun 93   IP Multicast over Token-Ring Local Area
                              Networks

This document specifies a method for the transmission of IP multicast
datagrams over Token-Ring Local Area Networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1468    Murai        Jun 93   Japanese Character Encoding for Internet
                              Messages

This document describes the encoding used in electronic mail [RFC822]
and network news [RFC1036] messages in several Japanese networks.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1467    Topolcic     Aug 93   Status of CIDR Deployment in the
                              Internet

This document describes the current status of the development and
deployment of CIDR technology into the Internet. This document replaces
RFC 1367, which was a schedule for the deployment of IP address space
management procedures to support route aggregation.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1466    Gerich       May 93   Guidelines for Management of IP Address
                              Space

This document proposes a plan which will forward the implementation of
RFC 1174 and which defines the allocation and assignment of the network
number space.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1465    Eppenberger  May 93   Routing Coordination for X.400 MHS
                              Services Within a Multi Protocol / Multi
                              Network Environment Table Format V3 for
                              Static Routing

This document proposes short term solutions for maintaining and
distributing routing information and shows how messages can travel over
different networks by using multi stack MTAs as relays.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1464    Rosenbaum    May 93   Using the Domain Name System
                              To Store Arbitrary String Attributes

This paper describes a simple means to associate arbitrary string
information (ASCII text) with attributes that have not been defined by
the DNS.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


1463    Hoffman      May 93   FYI on Introducing the Internet--
                              A Short Bibliography of Introductory
                              Internetworking Readings for the Network
                              Novice

This bibliography offers a short list of recent information resources
that will help the network novice become familiar with the Internet,
including its associated networks, resources, protocols, and history.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1462    Krol         May 93   FYI on "What is the Internet?"

This FYI RFC answers the question, "What is the Internet?"  and is
produced by the User Services Working Group of the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1461    Throop       May 93   SNMP MIB extension for Multiprotocol
                              Interconnect over X.25

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing Multiprotocol Interconnect
(including IP) traffic carried over X.25.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1460    Rose         Jun 93   Post Office Protocol - Version 3

This memo is a revision to RFC 1225, a Draft Standard.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1459    Oikarinen    May 93   Internet Relay Chat Protocol

The IRC protocol is a text-based protocol, with the simplest client
being any socket program capable of connecting to the server.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1458    Braudes      May 93   Requirements for Multicast Protocols

This memo discusses some of these unresolved issues, and provides a
high-level design for a new multicast transport protocol, group address
and membership authority, and modifications to existing routing
protocols.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard.


1457    Housley      May 93   Security Label Framework for the
                              Internet

This memo presents a security labeling framework for the Internet.  The
framework is intended to help protocol designers determine what, if any,
security labeling should be supported by their protocols.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1456    V.S.W.G.     May 93   Conventions for Encoding the Vietnamese
                              Language VISCII: VIetnamese Standard
                              Code for Information Interchange VIQR:
                              Vietnamese Quoted-Readable Specification
                              Revision 1.1

This document provides information to the Internet community on the
currently used conventions for encoding Vietnamese characters into 7-bit
US ASCII and in an 8-bit form.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1455    Eastlake     May 93   Physical Link Security Type of Service

This RFC documents an experimental protocol providing a Type of Service
(TOS) to request maximum physical link security.  This is an addition to
the types of service enumerated in RFC 1349: Type of Service in the
Internet Protocol Suite.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for
the Internet community.






Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1454    Dixon        May 93   Comparison of Proposals for Next Version
                              of IP

This is a slightly edited reprint of RARE Technical Report (RTC(93)004).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1453    Chimiak      Apr 93   A Comment on Packet Video Remote
                              Conferencing and the Transport/Network
                              Layers

This RFC is a vehicle to inform the Internet community about XTP as it
benefits from past Internet activity and targets general-purpose
applications and multimedia applications with the emerging ATM networks
in mind.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard.


1452    Case         Apr 93   Coexistence between version 1 and
                              version 2 of the Internet-standard
                              Network Management Framework

The purpose of this document is to describe coexistence between version
2 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework, termed the SNMP
version 2 framework (SNMPv2) [1], and the original Internet-standard
Network Management Framework (SNMPv1).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1451    Case         Apr 93   Manager-to-Manager
                              Management Information Base

It is the purpose of this document to define managed objects which
describe the behavior of a SNMPv2 entity acting in both a manager role
and an agent role.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1450    Case         Apr 93   Management Information Base for version
                              2 of the Simple Network Management
                              Protocol (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document to define managed objects which
describe the behavior of a SNMPv2 entity.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1449    Case         Apr 93   Transport Mapplings for version 2 of the
                              Simple Network Management Protocol
                              (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document to define how the SNMPv2 maps onto an
initial set of transport domains.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1448    Case         Apr 93   Protocol Operations for version 2 of the
                              Simple Network Management Protocol
                              (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document, Protocol Operations for SNMPv2, to
define the operations of the protocol with respect to the sending and
receiving of the PDUs.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1447    McCloghrie   Apr 93   Party MIB for version 2 of the Simple
                              Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)

The Administrative Model for SNMPv2 document [3] defines the properties
associated with SNMPv2 parties, SNMPv2 contexts, and access control
policies.  It is the purpose of this document, the Party MIB for SNMPv2,
to define managed objects which correspond to these properties.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1446    Galvin       Apr 93   Security Protocols for version 2 of the
                              Simple Network Management Protocol
                              (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document, Security Protocols for SNMPv2, to
define one such authentication and one such privacy protocol.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1445    Galvin       Apr 93   Administrative Model for version 2 of
                              the Simple Network Management Protocol
                              (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document, the Administrative Model for SNMPv2,
to define how the administrative framework is applied to realize
effective network management in a variety of configurations and
environments.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1444    Case         Apr 93   Conformance Statements for version 2 of
                              the Simple Network Management Protocol
                              (SNMPv2)

It may be useful to define the acceptable lower-bounds of
implementation, along with the actual level of implementation achieved.
It is the purpose of this document to define the notation used for these
purposes.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1443    Case         Apr 93   Textual Conventions for version 2 of the
                              Simple Network Management Protocol
                              (SNMPv2)

It is the purpose of this document to define the initial set of textual
conventions available to all MIB modules.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1442    Case         Apr 93   Structure of Management Information for
                              version 2 of the Simple Network
                              Management Protocol (SNMPv2)

Management information is viewed as a collection of managed objects,
residing in a virtual information store, termed the Management
Information Base (MIB).  Collections of related objects are defined in
MIB modules.  These modules are written using a subset of OSI's Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) [1].  It is the purpose of this document,
the Structure of Management Information (SMI), to define that subset.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1441    Case         Apr 93   Introduction to version 2 of the
                              Internet-standard Network Management
                              Framework

The purpose of this document is to provide an overview of version 2 of
the Internet-standard Network Management Framework, termed the SNMP
version 2 framework (SNMPv2).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1440    Troth        Jul 93   SIFT/UFT: Sender-Initiated/Unsolicited
                              File Transfer

This document describes a Sender-Initiated File Transfer (SIFT)
protocol, also commonly called Unsolicited File Transfer (UFT) protocol.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.





Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1439    Finseth      Mar 93   The Uniqueness of Unique Identifiers

This RFC provides information that may be useful when selecting a method
to use for assigning unique identifiers to people.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1438    Chapin       Apr 93   IETF Statements Of Boredom (SOB)s

This document creates a new subseries of RFCs, entitled, IETF Statements
Of Boredom (SOBs).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1437    Borenstein   Apr 93   The Extension of MIME Content-Types to a
                              New Medium

This document defines one particular type of MIME data, the matter-
transport/sentient-life-form type.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1436    Anklesaria   Mar 93   The Internet Gopher Protocol

This document describes the protocol, lists some of the implementations
currently available, and has an overview of how to implement new client
and server applications.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1435    Knowles      Mar 93   IESG Advice from Experience with Path
                              MTU Discovery

In the course of reviewing the MTU Discovery protocol for possible
elevation to Draft Standard, a specific operational problem was
uncovered.  The problem results from the optional suppression of ICMP
messages implemented in some routers.  This memo outlines a modification
to this practice to allow the correct functioning of MTU Discovery.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.










Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1434    Dixon        Mar 93   Data Link Switching: Switch-to-Switch
                              Protocol

This RFC describes IBM's support of Data Link Switching over TCP/IP.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1433    Garrett      Mar 93   Directed ARP

Directed ARP is a dynamic address resolution procedure that enables
hosts and routers to resolve advertised potential next-hop IP addresses
on foreign IP networks to their associated link level addresses.  This
memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1432    Quarterman   Mar 93   Recent Internet Books

Here is a list of books related to using the Internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1431    Barker       Feb 93   DUA Metrics

This document defines a set of criteria by which a DUA implementation,
or more precisely a Directory user interface, may be judged.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1430    Kille        Feb 93   A Strategic Plan for Deploying an
                              Internet X.500 Directory Service

This document describes an overall strategy for deploying a Directory
Service on the Internet, based on the OSI X.500 Directory Service.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.


1429    Thomas       Feb 93   Listserv Distribute Protocol

This memo specifies a subset of the distribution protocol used by the
BITNET LISTSERV to deliver mail messages to large amounts of recipients.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard.





Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1428    Vaudreuil    Feb 93   Transition of Internet Mail from
                              Just-Send-8 to 8bit-SMTP/MIME

This document outlines the problems in this environment and an approach
to minimizing the cost of transition from current usage of non-MIME 8bit
messages to MIME.  This RFC provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1427    Klensin      Feb 93   SMTP Service Extension
                              for Message Size Declaration

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby an SMTP
client and server may interact to give the server an opportunity to
decline to accept a message (perhaps temporarily) based on the client's
estimate of the message size.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1426    Klensin      Feb 93   SMTP Service Extension
                              for 8bit-MIMEtransport

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby an SMTP
content body containing octets outside of the US ASCII octet range (hex
00-7F) may be relayed using SMTP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1425    Klensin      Feb 93   SMTP Service Extensions

This memo defines a framework for extending the SMTP service by defining
a means whereby a server SMTP can inform a client SMTP as to the service
extensions it supports.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1424    Kaliski       Feb 93   Privacy Enhancement for Internet
                               Electronic Mail:  Part IV: Key
                               Certification and Related Services

This document describes three types of service in support of Internet
Privacy-Enhanced Mail (PEM) [1-3]: key certification, certificate-
revocation list (CRL) storage, and CRL retrieval.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]











Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1423    Balenson      Feb 93   Privacy Enhancement for Internet
                               Electronic Mail:  Part III: Algorithms,
                               Modes, and Identifiers

This document provides definitions, formats, references, and citations
for cryptographic algorithms, usage modes, and associated identifiers
and parameters used in support of Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) in the
Internet community.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1422    Kent          Feb 93   Privacy Enhancement for Internet
                               Electronic Mail:  Part II:
                               Certificate-Based Key Management

This is one of a series of documents defining privacy enhancement
mechanisms for electronic mail transferred using Internet mail
protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1421    Linn          Feb 93   Privacy Enhancement for Internet
                               Electronic Mail:  Part I: Message
                               Encryption and Authentication
                               Procedures

This document defines message encryption and authentication procedures,
in order to provide privacy-enhanced mail (PEM) services for electronic
mail transfer in the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1420    Bostock       Mar 93   SNMP over IPX

This document defines a convention for encapsulating Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP) [1] packets over the transport mechanism
provided via the Internetwork Packet Exchange (IPX) protocol [2].
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1419    Minshall      Mar 93   SNMP over AppleTalk

This memo describes the method by which the Simple Network Management
Protocol (SNMP) as specified in [1] can be used over AppleTalk protocols
[2] instead of the Internet UDP/IP protocol stack.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1418    Rose          Mar 93   SNMP over OSI

This memo addresses some concerns by defining a framework for running
the SNMP in an environment which supports the OSI connectionless-mode
transport service.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1417    N.A.D.F.      Feb 93   NADF Standing Documents:
                               A Brief Overview

The purpose of this document is to provide a brief overview of the
NADF's Standing Document series.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1416    Borman        Feb 93   Telnet Authentication Option

This RFC 1416 replaces RFC 1409, which has an important typographical
error in the example on page 6 (one occurance of "REPLY" should be
"IS").  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


1415    Mindel        Jan 93   FTP-FTAM Gateway Specification

This memo describes a dual protocol stack application layer gateway that
performs protocol translation, in an interactive environment, between
the FTP and FTAM file transfer protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1414    St. Johns     Feb 93   Identification MIB

This memo defines a MIB for use with identifying the users associated
with TCP connections.  It provides functionality approximately
equivalent to that provided by the protocol defined in RFC 1413 [1].
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1413    St. Johns     Feb 93   Identification Protocol

The Identification Protocol was formerly called the Authentication
Server Protocol.  It has been renamed to better reflect its function.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1412    Alagappan     Jan 93   Telnet Authentication: SPX

This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1411    Borman        Jan 93   Telnet Authentication:
                               Kerberos Version 4

This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1410    I.A.B         Mar 93   IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).


1409    Borman        Jan 93   Telnet Authentication Option

This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1408    Borman        Jan 93   Telnet Environment Option

This document specifies a mechanism for passing environment information
between a telnet client and server.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1407    Cox           Jan 93   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                               DS3/E3 Interface Type

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing DS3 and E3 Interfaces.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1406    Basker        Jan 93   Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                               DS1 and E1 Interface Types

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing DS1 Interfaces -- including
both T1 and E1 (a.k.a., CEPT 2 Mbit/s) links.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1405    Allocchio     Jan 93   Mapping between X.400(1984/1988) and
                               Mail-11 (DECnet mail)

This document describes a set of mappings which will enable inter
working between systems operating the CCITT X.400 ( 1984 / 1988 )
Recommendations on Message Handling Systems, and systems running the
Mail-11 (also known as DECnet mail) protocol.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1404    Stockman      Jan 93   A Model for Common Operational
                               Statistics

This memo describes a model for operational statistics in the Internet.
It gives recommendations for metrics, measurements, polling periods,
storage formats and presentation formats.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard.


1403    Varadhan      Jan 93   BGP OSPF Interaction

This memo defines the various criteria to be used when designing an
Autonomous System Border Routers (ASBR) that will run BGP with other
ASBRs external to the AS and OSPF as its IGP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1402    Martin        Jan 93   There's Gold in them thar Networks!
                               Searching for Treasure in all the Wrong
                               Places

The ultimate goal is to make the route to these sources of information
invisible to you.  At present, this is not easy to do.  I will explain
some of the techniques that can be used to make these nuggets easier to
pick up so that we all can be richer.  This RFC provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.


1401    I.A.B.        Jan 93   Correspondence between the IAB and DISA
                               on the use of DNS throughout the
                               Internet

This memo reproduces three letters exchanged between the Internet
Activities Board (IAB) and the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA)
regarding the importance of using the Domain Name System (DNS)
throughout the Internet, and phasing out the use of older host name to
address tables, such as "hosts.txt".  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.



Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 1499                  Summary of 1400-1499              January 1997


1400    Williamson    Mar 93   Transition and Modernization
                               of the Internet Registration Service

As a result of the NREN NIS award by National Science Foundation, non-
DDN registration services will soon be transferred from the DDN NIC to
the new Internet Registration Service, which is a part of an entity
referred to as the InterNIC.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.

Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Josh Elliott
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: elliott@isi.edu



























Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 21]

