





Network Working Group                                           A. Ramos
Request for Comments: 2299                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1999



                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 2200-2299

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2200
   through RFCs 2299.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----


2299    Ramos           Jan 1999        Request for Comments Summary

This memo.


2298    Fajman          Mar 1998        An Extensible Message Format

This memo defines a MIME content-type that may be used by a mail user
agent (UA) or electronic mail gateway to report the disposition of a
message after it has been sucessfully delivered to a recipient.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]




Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2297    Newman          Mar 1998        Ipsilon's General Switch
                                        Management Protocol
                                        Specification Version 2.0

This memo specifies enhancements to the General Switch Management
Protocol (GSMP) [RFC1987].  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2296    Holtman         Mar 1998        HTTP Remote Variant Selection
                                        Algorithm -- RVSA/1.0

HTTP allows web site authors to put multiple versions of the same
information under a single URL.  Transparent content negotiation is a
mechanism for automatically selecting the best version when the URL is
accessed.  A remote variant selection algorithm can be used to speed up
the transparent negotiation process. This document defines the remote
variant selection algorithm with the version number 1.0.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  It does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Discussion and
suggestions for improvement are requested.


2295    Holtman         Mar 1998        Transparent Content
                                        Negotiation in HTTP

HTTP allows web site authors to put multiple versions of the same
information under a single URL.  Transparent content negotiation is an
extensible negotiation mechanism, layered on top of HTTP, for
automatically selecting the best version when the URL is accessed.  This
enables the smooth deployment of new web data formats and markup tags.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Discussion and
suggestions for improvement are requested.


2294    Kille           Mar 1998        Representing the O/R Address
                                        hierarchy in the X.500
                                        Directory Information Tree

This document defines a representation of the O/R Address hierarchy in
the Directory Information Tree.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2293    Kille           Mar 1998        Representing Tables and
                                        Subtrees in the X.500 Directory

This document defines techniques for representing two types of
information mapping in the OSI Directory: Mapping from a key to a value
(or set of values), as might be done in a table lookup, and mapping from
a distinguished name to an associated value (or values), where the
values are not defined by the owner of the entry.  This is achieved by
use of a directory subtree.  [STANDARDS-TRCK]


2292    Stevens         Feb 1998        Advanced Sockets API for IPv6

The current document defines some the "advanced" features of the sockets
API that are required for applications to take advantage of additional
features of IPv6.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2291    Slein           Feb 1998        Requirements for a Distributed
                                        Authoring and Versioning
                                        Protocol for the World Wide Web

This document presents a list of features in the form of requirements
for a Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning protocol which, if
implemented, would improve the efficiency of common remote editing
operations, provide a locking mechanism to prevent overwrite conflicts,
improve link management support between non-HTML data types, provide a
simple attribute-value metadata facility, provide for the creation and
reading of container data types, and integrate versioning into the WWW.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2290    Solomon         Feb 1998        Mobile-IPv4 Configuration
                                        Option for PPP IPCP

Mobile IP [RFC 2002] defines media-independent procedures by which a
Mobile Node can maintain existing transport and application-layer
connections despite changing its point-of-attachment to the Internet and
without changing its IP address.  PPP [RFC 1661] provides a standard
method for transporting multi-protocol packets over point-to-point
links.  As currently specified, Mobile IP Foreign Agents which support
Mobile Node connections via PPP can do so only by first assigning unique
addresses to those Mobile Nodes, defeating one of the primary advantages
of Foreign Agents.  This documents corrects this problem by defining the
Mobile-IPv4 Configuration Option to the Internet Protocol Control
Protocol (IPCP) [RFC 1332].  Using this option, two peers can



Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


communicate their support for Mobile IP during the IPCP phase of PPP.
Familiarity with Mobile IP [RFC 2002], IPCP [RFC 1332], and PPP [RFC
1661] is assumed.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2289    Haller          Feb 1998        A One-Time Password System

This document describes a one-time password authentication system (OTP).
The system provides authentication for system access (login) and other
applications requiring authentication that is secure against passive
attacks based on replaying captured reusable passwords.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2288    Lynch           Feb 1998        Using Existing Bibliographic
                                        Identifiers as Uniform
                                        Resource Names

This document discusses how three major bibliographic identifiers (the
ISBN, ISSN and SICI) can be supported within the URN framework and the
currently proposed syntax for URNs.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2287    Krupczak        Feb 1998        Definitions of System-Level
                                        Managed Objects for Applications

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community. In
particular, it describes a basic set of managed objects for fault,
configuration and performance management of applications from a systems
perspective.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2286    Kapp            Feb 1998        Test Cases for HMAC-RIPEMD160
                                        and HMAC-RIPEMD128

This document provides two sets of test cases for HMAC-RIPEMD160 and
HMAC-RIPEMD128.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.










Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2285    Mandeville      Feb 1998        Benchmarking Terminology for
                                        LAN Switching Devices

This document is intended to provide terminology for the benchmarking of
local area network (LAN) switching devices.  It extends the terminology
already defined for benchmarking network interconnect devices in RFCs
1242 and 1944 to switching devices.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2284    Blunk           Mar 1998        PPP Extensible Authentication
                                        Protocol (EAP)

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for
transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links.  PPP
also defines an extensible Link Control Protocol, which allows
negotiation of an Authentication Protocol for authenticating its peer
before allowing Network Layer protocols to transmit over the link.  This
document defines the PPP Extensible Authentication Protocol.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2283    Bates           Feb 1998        Multiprotocol Extensions for
                                        BGP-4

This document defines extensions to BGP-4 to enable it to carry routing
information for multiple Network Layer protocols (e.g., IPv6, IPX,
etc...). The extensions are backward compatible - a router that supports
the extensions can interoperate with a router that doesn't support the
extensions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2282    Galvin          Feb 1998        IAB and IESG Selection,
                                        Confirmation, and Recall
                                        Process: Operation of the
                                        Nominating and Recall
                                        Committees

The process by which the members of the IAB and IESG are selected,
confirmed, and recalled is specified.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.








Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2281    Li              Mar 1998        Cisco Hot Standby Router
                                        Protocol (HSRP)

The memo specifies the Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP).  The goal of
the protocol is to allow hosts to appear to use a single router and to
maintain connectivity even if the actual first hop router they are using
fails.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2280    Alaettinoglu    Jan 1998        Routing Policy Specification
                                        Language (RPSL)

This memo is the reference document for the Routing Policy Specification
Language (RPSL). RPSL allows a network operator to be able to specify
routing policies at various levels in the Internet hierarchy; for
example at the Autonomous System (AS) level.  At the same time, policies
can be specified with sufficient detail in RPSL so that low level router
configurations can be generated from them.  RPSL is extensible; new
routing protocols and new protocol features can be introduced at any
time.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2279    Yergeau         Jan 1998        UTF-8, a transformation format
                                        of ISO 10646

UTF-8, the object of this memo, has the characteristic of preserving the
full US-ASCII range, providing compatibility with file systems, parsers
and other software that rely on US-ASCII values but are transparent to
other values. This memo updates and replaces RFC 2044, in particular
addressing the question of versions of the relevant standards.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2278    Freed           Jan 1998        IANA Charset
                                        Registration Procedures

MIME [RFC-2045, RFC-2046, RFC-2047, RFC-2184] and various other modern
Internet protocols are capable of using many different charsets. This in
turn means that the ability to label different charsets is essential.
This registration procedure exists solely to associate a specific name
or names with a given charset and to give an indication of whether or
not a given charset can be used in MIME text objects.  This document
specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community,
and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.






Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2277    Alvestrand      Jan 1998        IETF Policy on Character Sets
                                        and Languages

This document is the current policies being applied by the Internet
Engineering Steering Group (IESG) towards the standardization efforts in
the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in order to help Internet
protocols fulfill these requirements.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2276    Sollins         Jan 1998        Architectural Principles of
                                        Uniform Resource Name Resolution

This document addresses the issues of the discovery of URN (Uniform
Resource Name) resolver services that in turn will directly translate
URNs into URLs (Uniform Resource Locators) and URCs (Uniform Resource
Characteristics).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2275    Wijnen          Jan 1998        View-based Access Control
                                        Model (VACM) for the
                                        Simple Network Management
                                        Protocol (SNMP)

This document describes the View-based Access Control Model for use in
the SNMP architecture [RFC2261].  It defines the Elements of Procedure
for controlling access to management information.  This document also
includes a MIB for remotely managing the configuration parameters for
the View-based Access Control Model.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2274    Blumenthal      Jan 1998        User-based Security Model
                                        (USM) for version 3 of the
                                        Simple Network Management
                                        Protocol (SNMPv3)

This document describes the User-based Security Model (USM) for SNMP
version 3 for use in the SNMP architecture [RFC2261].  It defines the
Elements of Procedure for providing SNMP message level security.  This
document also includes a MIB for remotely monitoring/managing the
configuration parameters for this Security Model.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2273    Levi            Jan 1998        SNMPv3 Applications

This memo describes five types of SNMP applications which make use of an
SNMP engine as described in [RFC2261].  The types of application
described are Command Generators, Command Responders, Notification
Originators, Notification Receivers, and Proxy Forwarders.  This memo
also defines MIB modules for specifying targets of management
operations, for notification filtering, and for proxy forwarding.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2272    Case            Jan 1998        Message Processing and
                                        Dispatching for the Simple
                                        Network Management Protocol
                                        (SNMP)

This document describes the Message Processing and Dispatching for SNMP
messages within the SNMP architecture [RFC2271].  It defines the
procedures for dispatching potentially multiple versions of SNMP
messages to the proper SNMP Message Processing Models, and for
dispatching PDUs to SNMP applications.  This document also describes one
Message Processing Model - the SNMPv3 Message Processing Model.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2271    Harrington      Jan 1998        An Architecture for Describing
                                        SNMP Management Frameworks

This document describes an architecture for describing SNMP Management
Frameworks.  The architecture is designed to be modular to allow the
evolution of the SNMP protocol standards over time.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2270    Stewart         Jan 1998        Using a Dedicated AS for Sites
                                        Homed to a Single Provider

With the increased growth of the Internet, the number of customers using
BGP4 has grown significantly. RFC1930 outlines a set of guidelines for
when one needs and should use an AS. However, the customer and service
provider (ISP) are left with a problem as a result of this in that while
there is no need for an allocated AS under the guidelines, certain
conditions make the use of BGP4 a very pragmatic and perhaps only way to
connect a customer homed to a single ISP.  This paper proposes a
solution to this problem in line with recommendations set forth in
RFC1930.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.





Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2269    Armitage        Jan 1998        Using the MARS Model in
                                        non-ATM NBMA Networks

This document is intended to state the obvious equivalences, and explain
the less obvious implications.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2268    Rivest          Mar 1998        A Description of the RC2(r)
                                        Encryption Algorithm

This memo describes a conventional (secret-key) block encryption
algorithm, called RC2, which may be considered as a proposal for a DES
replacement.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2267    Ferguson        Jan 1998        Network Ingress Filtering:
                                        Defeating Denial of Service
                                        Attacks which employ
                                        IP Source Address Spoofing

This paper discusses a simple, effective, and straightforward method for
using ingress traffic filtering to prohibit DoS attacks which use forged
IP addresses to be propagated from 'behind' an Internet Service
Provider's (ISP) aggregation point.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2266    Flick           Jan 1998        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for IEEE 802.12 Repeater Devices

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing network repeaters based on
IEEE 802.12.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]













Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2265    Wijnen          Jan 1998        View-based Access Control
                                        Model (VACM) for the
                                        Simple Network Management
                                        Protocol (SNMP)

This document describes the View-based Access Control Model for use in
the SNMP architecture [RFC2261].  It defines the Elements of Procedure
for controlling access to management information.  This document also
includes a MIB for remotely managing the configuration parameters for
the View-based Access Control Model.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2264    Blumenthal      Jan 1998        User-based Security Model
                                        (USM) for version 3 of the
                                        Simple Network Management
                                        Protocol (SNMPv3)

This document describes the User-based Security Model (USM) for SNMP
version 3 for use in the SNMP architecture [RFC2261].  It defines the
Elements of Procedure for providing SNMP message level security.  This
document also includes a MIB for remotely monitoring/managing the
configuration parameters for this Security Model.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2263    Levi            Jan 1998        SNMPv3 Applications

This memo describes five types of SNMP applications which make use of an
SNMP engine as described in [RFC2261].  The types of application
described are Command Generators, Command Responders, Notification
Originators, Notification Receivers, and Proxy Forwarders.  This memo
also defines MIB modules for specifying targets of management
operations, for notification filtering, and for proxy forwarding.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2262    Case            Jan 1998        Message Processing and
                                        Dispatching for the Simple
                                        Network Management Protocol
                                        (SNMP)

This document describes the Message Processing and Dispatching for SNMP
messages within the SNMP architecture [RFC2261].  It defines the
procedures for dispatching potentially multiple versions of SNMP
messages to the proper SNMP Message Processing Models, and for
dispatching PDUs to SNMP applications.  This document also describes one
Message Processing Model - the SNMPv3 Message Processing Model.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]




Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2261    Harrington      Jan 1998        An Architecture for Describing
                                        SNMP Management Frameworks

This document describes an architecture for describing SNMP Management
Frameworks.  The architecture is designed to be modular to allow the
evolution of the SNMP protocol standards over time.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2260    Bates           Jan 1998        Scalable Support for
                                        Multi-homed Multi-provider
                                        Connectivity

This document describes addressing and routing strategies for multi-
homed enterprises attached to multiple Internet Service Providers (ISPs)
that are intended to reduce the routing overhead due to these
enterprises in the global Internet routing system.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2259    Elliott         Jan 1998        Simple Nomenclator Query
                                        Protocol (SNQP)

The Simple Nomenclator Query Protocol (SNQP) allows a client to
communicate with a descriptive name service or other relational-style
query service.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind


2258    Ordille         Jan 1998        Internet Nomenclator Project

The goal of the Internet Nomenclator Project is to integrate the
hundreds of publicly available CCSO servers from around the world.  This
document provides an overview of the Nomenclator system, describes how
to register a CCSO server in the Internet Nomenclator Project, and how
to use the Nomenclator search engine to find people on the Internet.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2257    Daniele         Jan 1998        Agent Extensibility (AgentX)
                                        Protocol Version 1

This memo defines a standardized framework for extensible SNMP agents.
It defines processing entities called master agents and subagents, a
protocol (AgentX) used to communicate between them, and the elements of
procedure by which the extensible agent processes SNMP protocol
messages.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]



Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2256    Wahl            Dec 1997        A Summary of the X.500(96)
                                          User Schema for use with LDAPv3

This document provides an overview of the attribute types and object
classes defined by the ISO and ITU-T committees in the X.500 documents,
in particular those intended for use by directory clients.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2255    Howes           Dec 1997        The LDAP URL Format

This document describes a format for an LDAP Uniform Resource Locator.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2254    Howes           Dec 1997        The String Representation of
                                        LDAP Search Filters

This document defines a human-readable string format for representing
LDAP search filters.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2253    Wahl            Dec 1997        Lightweight Directory Access
                                        Protocol (v3): UTF-8 String
                                        Representation of
                                        Distinguished Names

This specification defines the string format for representing names,
which is designed to give a clean representation of commonly used
distinguished names, while being able to represent any distinguished
name.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2252    Wahl            Dec 1997        Lightweight Directory Access
                                        Protocol (v3): Attribute
                                        Syntax Definitions

This document defines a set of syntaxes for LDAPv3, and the rules by
which attribute values of these syntaxes are represented as octet
strings for transmission in the LDAP protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]











Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2251    Wahl            Dec 1997        Lightweight Directory Access
                                        Protocol (v3)

The protocol described in this document is designed to provide access to
directories supporting the X.500 models, while not incurring the
resource requirements of the X.500 Directory Access Protocol (DAP).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2250    Hoffman         Jan 1998        RTP Payload Format for
                                        MPEG1/MPEG2 Video

This memo describes a packetization scheme for MPEG video and audio
streams.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2249    Freed           Jan 1998        Mail Monitoring MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
Specifically, this memo extends the basic Network Services Monitoring
MIB [8] to allow monitoring of Message Transfer Agents (MTAs). It may
also be used to monitor MTA components within gateways.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2248    Freed           Jan 1998        Network Services Monitoring MIB

This MIB may be used on its own for any application, and for most simple
applications this will suffice.  This MIB is also designed to serve as a
building block which can be used in conjunction with application-
specific monitoring and management.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2247    Kille           Jan 1998        Using Domains in LDAP/X.500
                                        Distinguished Names

This document defines an algorithm by which a name registered with the
Internet Domain Name Service [2] can be represented as an LDAP
distinguished name.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]











Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2246    Dierks          Jan 1999        The TLS Protocol Version 1.0

This document specifies Version 1.0 of the Transport Layer Security
(TLS) protocol. The TLS protocol provides communications privacy over
the Internet. The protocol allows client/server applications to
communicate in a way that is designed to prevent eavesdropping,
tampering, or message forgery.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2245    Newman          Nov 1997        Anonymous SASL Mechanism

As plaintext login commands are not permitted in new IETF protocols, a
new way to provide anonymous login is needed within the context of the
SASL [SASL] framework.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2244    Newman          Nov 1997        ACAP -- Application
                                        Configuration Access Protocol

The Application Configuration Access Protocol (ACAP) is designed to
support remote storage and access of program option, configuration and
preference information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2243    Metz            Nov 1997        OTP Extended Responses

This document provides a specification for a type of response to an OTP
[RFC 1938] challenge that carries explicit indication of the response's
encoding.  This document also provides a specification for a response
that allows an OTP generator to request that a server re-initialize a
sequence and change parameters such as the secret pass phrase.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2242    Droms           Nov 1997        NetWare/IP Domain Name and
                                        Information

This document defines options that carry NetWare/IP domain name and
NetWare/IP sub-options to DHCP clients.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]












Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2241    Provan          Nov 1997        DHCP Options for Novell
                                        Directory Services

This document defines three new DHCP options for delivering
configuration information to clients of the Novell Directory Services.
This document defines three new DHCP options for delivering
configuration information to clients of the Novell Directory Services.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2240    Vaughan         Nov 1997        A Legal Basis for Domain Name
                                        Allocation

The purpose of this memo is to focus discussion on the particular
problems with the exhaustion of the top level domain space in the
Internet and the possible conflicts that can occur when multiple
organisations are vying for the same name.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2239    de Graaf        Nov 1997        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for IEEE 802.3 Medium
                                        Attachment Units (MAUs) using SMIv2

This memo defines an portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing 10 and 100 Mb/second Medium
Attachment Units (MAUs) based on IEEE Std 802.3 Section 30, "10 & 100
Mb/s Management," October 26, 1995.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2238    Clouston        Nov 1997        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for HPR using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network
devices with HPR (High Performance Routing) capabilities.  This memo
identifies managed objects for the HPR protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2237    Tamaru          Nov 1997        Japanese Character Encoding
                                        for Internet Messages

This memo defines an encoding scheme for the Japanese Characters,
describes "ISO-2022-JP-1", which is used in electronic mail [RFC-822],
and network news [RFC 1036]. Also this memo provides a listing of the



Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


Japanese Character Set that can be used in this encoding scheme.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2236    Fenner          Nov 1997        Internet Group Management
                                        Protocol, Version 2

This memo documents IGMPv2, used by IP hosts to report their multicast
group memberships to routers.  It updates STD 5, RFC 1112.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2235    Zakon           Nov 1997        Hobbes' Internet Timeline

This document presents a history of the Internet in timeline fashion,
highlighting some of the key events and technologies which helped shape
the Internet as we know it today.  A growth summary of the Internet and
some associated technologies is also included.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2234    Crocker         Nov 1997        Augmented BNF for Syntax
                                        Specifications: ABNF

In the early days of the Arpanet, each specification contained its own
definition of ABNF.  This included the email specifications, RFC733 and
then RFC822 which have come to be the common citations for defining
ABNF.  The current document separates out that definition, to permit
selective reference.  Predictably, it also provides some modifications
and enhancements.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2233    McCloghrie      Nov 1997        The Interfaces Group MIB using
                                        SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing Network
Interfaces.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2232    Clouston        Nov 1997        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for DLUR using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network
devices with DLUR (Dependent LU Requester) capabilities.  This memo
identifies managed objects for the DLUR protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2231    Freed           Nov 1997        MIME Parameter Value and
                                        Encoded Word Extensions:
                                        Character Sets, Languages, and
                                        Continuations

This memo defines extensions to the RFC 2045 media type and RFC 2183
disposition parameter value mechanisms.  This memo also defines an
extension to the encoded words defined in RFC 2047 to allow the
specification of the language to be used for display as well as the
character set.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2230    Atkinson        Nov 1997        Key Exchange Delegation Record
                                        for the DNS

This note describes a mechanism whereby authorisation for one node to
act as key exchanger for a second node is delegated and made available
via the Secure DNS.  This mechanism is intended to be used only with the
Secure DNS.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2229    Faith           Oct 1997        A Dictionary Server Protocol

The Dictionary Server Protocol (DICT) is a TCP transaction based
query/response protocol that allows a client to access dictionary
definitions from a set of natural language dictionary databases.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.

2228    Horowitz        Oct 1997        FTP Security Extensions

This document defines extensions to the FTP specification STD 9, RFC
959, "FILE TRANSFER PROTOCOL (FTP)" (October 1985).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]







Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2227    Mogul           Oct 1997        Simple Hit-Metering and
                                        Usage-Limiting for HTTP

This document proposes a simple extension to HTTP, using a new "Meter"
header.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2226    Smith           Oct 1997        IP Broadcast over ATM Networks

This memo describes how the IP multicast service being developed by the
IP over ATM working group may be used to support IP broadcast
transmission.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2225    Laubach         Apr 1998        Classical IP and ARP over ATM

This memo defines an initial application of classical IP and ARP in an
Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) network environment configured as a
Logical IP Subnetwork (LIS).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2224    Callaghan       Oct 1997        NFS URL Scheme

A new URL scheme, 'nfs' is defined.  It is used to refer to files and
directories on NFS servers using the general URL syntax defined in RFC
1738, "Uniform Resource Locators (URL)".  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


2223    Postel          Oct 1997        Instructions to RFC Authors

This Request for Comments (RFC) provides information about the
preparation of RFCs, and certain policies relating to the publication of
RFCs.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2222    Myers           Oct 1997        Simple Authentication and
                                        Security Layer (SASL)

This document describes a method for adding authentication support to
connection-based protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2221    Gahrns          Oct 1997        IMAP4 Login Referrals


When dealing with large amounts of users and many IMAP4 [RFC-2060]
servers, it is often necessary to move users from one IMAP4 server to
another.  Login referrals allow clients to transparently connect to an
alternate IMAP4 server, if their home IMAP4 server has changed.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]

2220    Guenther        Oct 1997        The Application/MARC Content-
                                        type

This memorandum provides a mechanism for representing objects which are
files of Machine-Readable Cataloging records (MARC).  The MARC formats
are standards for the representation and communication of bibliographic
and related information.  A MARC record contains metadata for an
information resource following MARC format specifications.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2219    Hamilton        Oct 1997        Use of DNS Aliases for Network
                                        Services

It has become a common practice to use symbolic names (usually CNAMEs)
in the Domain Name Service (DNS - [RFC-1034, RFC-1035]) to refer to
network services such as anonymous FTP [RFC-959] servers, Gopher [RFC-
1436] servers, and most notably World-Wide Web HTTP [RFC-1945] servers.
This is desirable for a number of reasons.  It provides a way of moving
services from one machine to another transparently, and a mechanism by
which people or agents may programmatically discover that an
organization runs, say, a World-Wide Web server.  Although this approach
has been almost universally adopted, there is no standards document or
similar specification for these commonly used names.  This document
seeks to rectify this situation by gathering together the extant
'folklore' on naming conventions, and proposes a mechanism for
accommodating new protocols.  This document specifies an Internet Best
Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion
and suggestions for improvements.


2218    Genovese        Oct 1997        A Common Schema for the
                                        Internet White Pages Service

This document specifies the minimum set of core attributes of a White
Pages entry for an individual and describes how new objects with those
attributes can be defined and published.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2217    Clark           Oct 1997        Telnet Com Port Control Option

This memo proposes a protocol to allow greater use of modems attached to
a network for outbound dialing purposes.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2216    Shenker         Sep 1997        Network Element Service
                                        Specification Template

This document defines a framework for specifying services provided by
network elements, and available to applications, in an internetwork
which offers multiple qualities of service. The document first provides
some necessary context -- including relevant definitions and suggested
data formats -- and then specifies a "template" which service
specification documents should follow.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


2215    Shenker         Sep 1997        General Characterization
                                        Parameters for Integrated
                                        Service Network Elements

This memo defines a set of general control and characterization
parameters for network elements supporting the IETF integrated services
QoS control framework.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2214    Baker           Sep 1997        Integrated Services Management
                                        Information Base Guaranteed
                                        Service Extensions using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the the interface attributes
defined in the Guaranteed Service of the Integrated Services Model.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2213    Baker           Sep 1997        Integrated Services Management
                                        Information Base using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the the interface attributes
defined in the Integrated Services Model.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2212    Shenker         Sep 1997        Specification of Guaranteed
                                        Quality of Service

This memo describes the network element behavior required to deliver a
guaranteed service (guaranteed delay and bandwidth) in the Internet.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2211    Wroclawski      Sep 1997        Specification of the
                                        Controlled-Load Network
                                        Element Service

This memo specifies the network element behavior required to deliver
Controlled-Load service in the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2210    Wroclawski      Sep 1997        The Use of RSVP with IETF
                                        Integrated Services

This note describes the use of the RSVP resource reservation protocol
with the Controlled-Load and Guaranteed QoS control services.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2209    Braden          Sep 1997        Resource ReSerVation Protocol
                                        (RSVP) -- Version 1 Message
                                        Processing Rules


This memo contains an algorithmic description of the rules used by an
RSVP implementation for processing messages.  It is intended to clarify
the version 1 RSVP protocol specification.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2208    Mankin          Sep 1997        Resource ReSerVation Protocol
                                        (RSVP) Version 1 Applicability
                                        Statement Some Guidelines on
                                        Deployment

This document describes the applicability of RSVP along with the
Integrated Services protocols and other components of resource
reservation and offers guidelines for deployment of resource reservation
at this time. This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.





Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2207    Berger          Sep 1997        RSVP Extensions for IPSEC Data
                                        Flows

This document presents extensions to Version 1 of RSVP.  These
extensions permit support of individual data flows using RFC 1826, IP
Authentication Header (AH) or RFC 1827, IP Encapsulating Security
Payload (ESP).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2206    Baker           Sep 1997        RSVP Management Information
                                        This memo defines a portion of

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the Resource Reservation
Protocol (RSVP) within the interface attributes defined in the
Integrated Services Model.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2205    Braden          Sep 1997        Resource ReSerVation Protocol
                                        (RSVP)--Version 1 Functional
                                        Specification

This memo describes version 1 of RSVP, a resource reservation setup
protocol designed for an integrated services Internet.  RSVP provides
receiver-initiated setup of resource reservations for multicast or
unicast data flows, with good scaling and robustness properties.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2204    Nash            Sep 1997        ODETTE File Transfer Protocol

This memo describes a file transfer protocol to facilitate electronic
data interchange between trading partners.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2203    Eisler          Sep 1997        RPCSEC_GSS Protocol Specification

This memo describes an ONC/RPC security flavor that allows RPC protocols
to access the Generic Security Services Application Programming
Interface (referred to henceforth as GSS-API).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 22]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


2202    Cheng           Sep 1997        Test Cases for HMAC-MD5 and
                                        HMAC-SHA-1

This document provides two sets of test cases for HMAC-MD5 and HMAC-
SHA-1, respectively. HMAC-MD5 and HMAC-SHA-1 are two constructs of the
HMAC [HMAC] message authentication function using the MD5 [MD5] hash
function and the SHA-1 [SHA] hash function.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2201    Ballardie       Sep 1997        Core Based Trees (CBT)
                                        Multicast Routing Architecture

CBT is a multicast routing architecture that builds a single delivery
tree per group which is shared by all of the group's senders and
receivers.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


2200    IAB             Jun 1997        INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL
                                        STANDARDS

A discussion of the standardization process and the RFC document series
is presented first, followed by an explanation of the terms.  Sections
6.2 - 6.10 contain the lists of protocols in each stage of
standardization.  Finally are pointers to references and contacts for
further information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]



Security Considerations

   There are no security issues in this Informational RFC.

Author's Address

   Alegre Ramos
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511
   EMail: ramos@isi.edu






Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 23]

RFC 2299                  Summary of 2200-2299              January 1999


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
























Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 24]

