





Network Working Group                                         J. Elliott
Request for Comments: 2099                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                       March 1997


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 2000-2099

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2000
   through RFCs 2099.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

2099    Elliott      Mar 97   Request for Comments Summary

This memo.


2098    Katsube      Feb 97   Toshiba's Router Architecture Extensions
                              for ATM : Overview

This memo describes a new internetworking architecture which makes
better use of the property of ATM.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2097    Pall         Jan 97   The PPP NetBIOS Frames Control Protocol
                              (NBFCP)

This document defines the Network Control Protocol for establishing and
configuring the NBF protocol over PPP.  The NBFCP protocol is only
applicable for an end system to connect to a peer system or the LAN that
peer system is connected to.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2096    Baker        Jan 97   IP Forwarding Table MIB

This memo defines an update to RFC 1354.  The significant difference
between this MIB and RFC 1354 is the recognition (explicitly discussed
but by consensus left to future work) that CIDR routes may have the same
network number but different network masks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2095    Klensin      Jan 97   IMAP/POP AUTHorize Extension for Simple
                              Challenge/Response

This specification provides a simple challenge-response authentication
protocol that is suitable for use with IMAP4.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2094    Harney       Mar 97   Group Key Management Protocol (GKMP)
                              Architecture

This specification proposes a protocol to create grouped symmetric keys
and distribute them amongst communicating peers.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2093    Harney       Mar 97   Group Key Management Protocol (GKMP)
                              Specification

This specification proposes a protocol to create grouped symmetric keys
and distribute them amongst communicating peers.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2092    Sherry       Jan 97   Protocol Analysis for Triggered RIP

As required by Routing Protocol Criteria [1], this report documents the
key features of Triggered Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Circuits
[2] and the current implementation experience.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2091    Meyer        Jan 97   Triggered Extensions to RIP to Support
                              Demand Circuits

This document defines a modification which can be applied to Bellman-
Ford (distance vector) algorithm information broadcasting protocols.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2090    Emberson     Feb 97   TFTP Multicast Option

This document describes a new TFTP option. This new option will allow
the multiple clients to receive the same file concurrently through the
use of Multicast packets.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.


2089    Wijnen       Jan 97   V2ToV1 Mapping SNMPv2 onto SNMPv1 within
                              a bi-lingual SNMP agent

The goal of this memo is to document a common way of mapping an SNMPv2
response into an SNMPv1 response within a bi-lingual SNMP agent (one
that supports both SNMPv1 and SNMPv2).  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2088    Myers        Jan 97   IMAP4 non-synchronizing literals

The Internet Message Access Protocol [IMAP4] contains the "literal"
syntactic construct for communicating strings.  When sending a literal
from client to server, IMAP4 requires the client to wait for the server
to send a command continuation request between sending the octet count
and the string data.  This document specifies an alternate form of
literal which does not require this network round trip.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2087    Myers        Jan 97   IMAP4 QUOTA extension

The QUOTA extension of the Internet Message Access Protocol [IMAP4]
permits administrative limits on resource usage (quotas) to be
manipulated through the IMAP protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2086    Myers        Jan 97   IMAP4 ACL extension

The ACL extension of the Internet Message Access Protocol [IMAP4]
permits access control lists to be manipulated through the IMAP
protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2085    Oehler       Feb 97   HMAC-MD5 IP Authentication with Replay
                              Prevention

This document describes a keyed-MD5 transform to be used in conjunction
with the IP Authentication Header [RFC-1826]. The particular transform
is based on [HMAC-MD5].  An option is also specified to guard against
replay attacks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2084    Bossert      Jan 97   Considerations for Web Transaction
                              Security

This document specifies the requirements for the provision of security
services to the HyperText Transport Protocol.  These services include
confidentiality, integrity, user authentication, and authentication of
servers/services, including proxied or gatewayed services.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2083    Boutell      Jan 97   PNG (Portable Network Graphics)
                              Specification Version 1.0

This document describes PNG (Portable Network Graphics), an extensible
file format for the lossless, portable, well-compressed storage of
raster images.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2082    Baker        Jan 97   RIP-2 MD5 Authentication

Growth in the Internet has made us aware of the need for improved
authentication of routing information.  RIP-2 provides for
unauthenticated service (as in classical RIP), or password
authentication.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2081    Malkin       Jan 97   RIPng Protocol Applicability Statement

As required by Routing Protocol Criteria (RFC 1264), this report defines
the applicability of the RIPng protocol within the Internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2080    Malkin       Jan 97   RIPng for IPv6

This document specifies a routing protocol for an IPv6 internet.  It is
based on protocols and algorithms currently in wide use in the IPv4
Internet [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2079    Smith        Jan 97   Definition of an X.500 Attribute Type
                              and an Object Class to Hold Uniform
                              Resource Identifiers (URIs)

This document builds on the experimentation to date and defines a new
attribute type and an auxiliary object class to allow URIs, including
URLs, to be stored in directory entries in a standard way.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2078    Linn         Jan 97   Generic Security Service Application
                              Program Interface, Version 2

The Generic Security Service Application Program Interface (GSS-API), as
defined in RFC-1508, provides security services to callers in a generic
fashion, supportable with a range of underlying mechanisms and
technologies and hence allowing source-level portability of applications
to different environments.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2077    Nelson       Jan 97   The Model Primary Content Type for
                              Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions

The purpose of this memo is to propose an update to Internet RFC 2045 to
include a new primary content-type to be known as "model".  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2076    Palme        Feb 97   Common Internet Message Headers

This memo contains a table of commonly occurring headers in headings of
e-mail messages.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2075    Partridge    Jan 97   IP Echo Host Service

This memo describes how to implement an IP echo host.  IP echo hosts
send back IP datagrams after exchanging the source and destination IP
addresses.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


2074    Bierman      Jan 97   Remote Network Monitoring MIB Protocol
                              Identifiers

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes the algorithms required to
identify different protocol encapsulations managed with the Remote
Network Monitoring MIB Version 2 [RMON2].  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2073    Rekhter      Jan 97   An IPv6 Provider-Based Unicast Address
                              Format

This document defines an IPv6 provider-based unicast address format for
use in the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2072    Berkowitz    Jan 97   Router Renumbering Guide

Routers interact with numerous network infrastructure servers, including
DNS and SNMP.  These interactions, not just the pure addressing and
routing structure, must be considered as part of router renumbering.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.












Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2071    Ferguson     Jan 97   Network Renumbering Overview:
                              Why would I want it and what is it anyway?

This document attempts to clearly define the concept of network
renumbering and discuss some of the more pertinent reasons why an
organization would have a need to do so.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2070    Yergeau      Jan 97   Internationalization of the Hypertext
                              Markup Language

This document is meant to address the issue of the internationalization
(i18n, i followed by 18 letters followed by n) of HTML by extending the
specification of HTML and giving additional recommendations for proper
internationalization support.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2069    Franks       Jan 97   An Extension to HTTP : Digest Access
                              Authentication

The protocol referred to as "HTTP/1.0" includes the specification for a
Basic Access Authentication scheme.  This scheme is not considered to be
a secure method of user authentication, as the user name and password
are passed over the network as clear text.  A specification for a
different authentication scheme is needed to address this severe
limitation.  This document provides specification for such a scheme,
referred to as "Digest Access Authentication".  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2068    Fielding     Jan 97   Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol
for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2067    Renwick      Jan 97   IP over HIPPI

ANSI Standard X3.218-1993 (HIPPI-LE[3]) defines the encapsulation of
IEEE 802.2 LLC PDUs and, by implication, IP on HIPPI.  This memo is a
revision of RFC 1374, "IP and ARP on HIPPI", and is intended to replace
it in the Standards Track.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]







Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2066    Gellens      Jan 97   TELNET CHARSET Option

This document specifies a mechanism for passing character set and
translation information between a TELNET client and server.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2065    Eastlake     Jan 97   Domain Name System Security Extensions

The Domain Name System (DNS) has become a critical operational part of
the Internet infrastructure yet it has no strong security mechanisms to
assure data integrity or authentication.  Extensions to the DNS are
described that provide these services to security aware resolvers or
applications through the use of cryptographic digital signatures.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2064    Brownlee     Jan 97   Traffic Flow Measurement:  Meter MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, this memo defines managed objects used for obtaining traffic
flow information from network traffic meters.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2063    Brownlee     Jan 97   Traffic Flow Measurement:  Architecture

This document describes an architecture for the measurement and
reporting of network traffic flows, discusses how this relates to an
overall network traffic flow architecture, and describes how it can be
used within the Internet.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.


2062    Crispin      Dec 96   Internet Message Access Protocol -
                              Obsolete Syntax

This document describes obsolete syntax which may be encountered by
IMAP4 implementations which deal with older versions of the Internet
Mail Access Protocol.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2061    Crispin      Dec 96   IMAP4 COMPATIBILITY WITH IMAP2BIS

This document is intended to be read along with RFC 1176 and the most
recent IMAP4 specification (RFC 2060) to assist implementors in creating
an IMAP4 implementation to interoperate with implementations that
conform to earlier specifications.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


2060    Crispin      Dec 96   INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL -
                              VERSION 4rev1

The Internet Message Access Protocol, Version 4rev1 (IMAP4rev1) allows a
client to access and manipulate electronic mail messages on a server.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2059    Rigney       Jan 97   RADIUS Accounting

This document describes a protocol for carrying accounting information
between a Network Access Server and a shared Accounting Server.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2058    Rigney       Jan 97   Remote Authentication Dial In User
                              Service (RADIUS)

This document describes a protocol for carrying authentication,
authorization, and configuration information between a Network Access
Server which desires to authenticate its links and a shared
Authentication Server.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2057    Bradner      Nov 96   Source Directed Access Control on the
                              Internet

This memo was developed from a deposition that I submitted as part of a
challenge to the Communications Decency Act of 1996, part of the
Telecommunications Reform Act of 1996.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.








Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2056    Denenberg    Nov 96   Uniform Resource Locators for Z39.50

Z39.50 is an information retrieval protocol that does not fit neatly
into a retrieval model designed primarily around the stateless fetch of
data.  Instead, it models a general user inquiry as a session-oriented,
multi-step task, any step of which may be suspended temporarily while
the server requests additional parameters from the client before
continuing.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2055    Callaghan    Oct 96   WebNFS Server Specification

This document describes the specifications for a server of WebNFS
clients.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2054    Callaghan    Oct 96   WebNFS Client Specification

This document describes a lightweight binding mechanism that allows NFS
clients to obtain service from WebNFS-enabled servers with a minimum of
protocol overhead.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2053    Der-Danieliantz  Oct 96   The AM (Armenia) Domain

The AM Domain is an official Internet top-level domain of Armenia.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2052    Gulbrandsen  Oct 96   A DNS RR for specifying the location of
                              services (DNS SRV)

This document describes a DNS RR which specifies the location of the
server(s) for a specific protocol and domain (like a more general form
of MX).  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.












Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2051    Allen        Oct 96   Definitions of Managed Objects for APPC
                              using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the configuration,
monitoring and controlling of network devices with APPC (Advanced
Program-to-Program Communications) capabilities.  This memo identifies
managed objects for the SNA LU6.2 protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2050    Hubbard      Nov 96   INTERNET REGISTRY IP ALLOCATION
                              GUIDELINES

This document describes the registry system for the distribution of
globally unique Internet address space and registry operations.
Particularly this document describes the rules and guidelines governing
the distribution of this address space.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2049    Freed        Nov 96   Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
                              (MIME) Part Five: Conformance Criteria
                              and Examples

This set of documents, collectively called the Multipurpose Internet
Mail Extensions, or MIME, redefines the format of messages.  This fifth
and final document describes MIME conformance criteria as well as
providing some illustrative examples of MIME message formats,
acknowledgements, and the bibliography.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2048    Freed        Nov 96   Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
                              (MIME) Part Four: Registration
                              Procedures

This set of documents, collectively called the Multipurpose Internet
Mail Extensions, or MIME, redefines the format of messages.  This fourth
document, RFC 2048, specifies various IANA registration procedures for
some MIME facilities.  This document specifies an Internet Best Current
Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion and
suggestions for improvements.








Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2047    Moore        Nov 96   MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail
                              Extensions) Part Three: Message Header
                              Extensions for Non-ASCII Text

This particular document is the third document in the series.  It
describes extensions to RFC 822 to allow non-US-ASCII text data in
Internet mail header fields.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2046    Freed        Nov 96   Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
                              (MIME) Part Two: Media Types

This second document defines the general structure of the MIME media
typing system and defines an initial set of media types.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2045    Freed        Nov 96   Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
                              (MIME) Part One: Format of Internet
                              Message Bodies

This initial document specifies the various headers used to describe the
structure of MIME messages.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2044    Yergeau      Oct 96   UTF-8, a transformation format of
                              Unicode and ISO 10646

The Unicode Standard, version 1.1, and ISO/IEC 10646-1:1993 jointly
define a 16 bit character set which encompasses most of the world's
writing systems.  UTF-8, the object of this memo, has the characteristic
of preserving the full US-ASCII range.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2043    Fuqua        Oct 96   The PPP SNA Control Protocol (SNACP)

This document defines the Network Control Protocols for establishing and
configuring Systems Network Architecture (SNA) over PPP and SNA over LLC
802.2 over PPP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2042    Manning      Jan 97   Registering New BGP Attribute Types

This document describes the process for creating new BGP attribute type
codes.  Basic attribute type codes are described in RFC 1771, pages 12
through 15.  These, and new attribute type codes that are used in the
Internet are registered with the IANA.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2041    Noble        Oct 96   Mobile Network Tracing

This RFC argues that mobile network tracing provides both tools to
improve our understanding of wireless channels, as well as to build
realistic, repeatable testbeds for mobile software and systems.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2040    Baldwin      Oct 96   The RC5, RC5-CBC, RC5-CBC-Pad, and
                              RC5-CTS Algorithms

This document defines four ciphers with enough detail to ensure
interoperability between different implementations.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2039    Kalbfleisch  Nov 96   Applicablity of Standards Track MIBs to
                              Management of World Wide Web Servers

This document was produced at the request of the Network Management Area
Director following the HTTP-MIB BOF at the 35th IETF meeting to report
on the applicability of the existing standards track MIBs to management
of WWW servers.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2038    Hoffman      Oct 96   RTP Payload Format for MPEG1/MPEG2 Video

This memo describes a packetization scheme for MPEG video and audio
streams.  The scheme proposed can be used to transport such a video or
audio flow over the transport protocols supported by RTP.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2037    McCloghrie   Oct 96   Entity MIB using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing multiple
logical and physical entities managed by a single SNMP agent.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2036    Huston       Oct 96   Observations on the use of Components of
                              the Class A Address Space within the
                              Internet

This document is a commentary on the recommendation that IANA commence
allocation of the presently unallocated components of the Class A
address space to registries, for deployment within the Internet as
class-less address blocks.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


2035    Berc         Oct 96   RTP Payload Format for JPEG-compressed
                              Video

This memo describes the RTP payload format for JPEG video streams.  The
packet format is optimized for real-time video streams where codec
parameters change rarely from frame to frame.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2034    Freed        Oct 96   SMTP Service Extension for
                              Returning Enhanced Error Codes

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service [RFC-821, RFC-1869]
whereby an SMTP server augments its responses with the enhanced mail
system status codes defined in RFC 1893.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2033    Myers        Oct 96   Local Mail Transfer Protocol

SMTP [SMTP] [HOST-REQ] and its service extensions [ESMTP] provide a
mechanism for transferring mail reliably and efficiently.  The design of
the SMTP protocol effectively requires the server to manage a mail
delivery queue.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.







Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2032    Turletti     Oct 96   RTP Payload Format for H.261 Video
                              Streams

This memo describes a scheme to packetize an H.261 video stream for
transport using the Real-time Transport Protocol, RTP, with any of the
underlying protocols that carry RTP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2031    Huizer       Oct 96   IETF-ISOC relationship

This memo summarises the issues on IETF - ISOC relationships as the have
been discussed by the Poised Working Group. The purpose of the document
is to gauge consensus on these issues. And to allow further discussions
where necessary.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2030    Mills        Oct 96   Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP)
                              Version 4 for IPv4, IPv6 and OSI

This memorandum describes the Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP)
Version 4, which is an adaptation of the Network Time Protocol (NTP)
used to synchronize computer clocks in the Internet.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2029    Speer        Oct 96   RTP Payload Format of Sun's CellB Video
                              Encoding

This memo describes a packetization scheme for the CellB video encoding.
The scheme proposed allows applications to transport CellB video flows
over protocols used by RTP.  This document is meant for implementors of
video applications that want to use RTP and CellB.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2028    Hovey       Oct 96   The Organizations Involved in the IETF
                             Standards Process

This document describes the individuals and organizations involved in
the IETF.  This includes descriptions of the IESG, the IETF Working
Groups and the relationship between the IETF and the Internet Society.
This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the
Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.






Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2027    Galvin      Oct 96   IAB and IESG Selection, Confirmation, and
                             Recall Process: Operation of the
                             Nominating and Recall Committees

The process by which the members of the IAB and IESG are selected,
confirmed, and recalled has been exercised four times since its formal
creation.  The evolution of the process has relied principally on oral
tradition as a means by which the lessons learned could be passed on to
successive committees.  This document is a self-consistent, organized
compilation of the process as it is known today.  This document
specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community,
and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2026    Bradner      Oct 96   The Internet Standards Process --
                              Revision 3

This memo documents the process used by the Internet community for the
standardization of protocols and procedures.  It defines the stages in
the standardization process, the requirements for moving a document
between stages and the types of documents used during this process.
This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the
Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.


2025    Adams        Oct 96   The Simple Public-Key GSS-API Mechanism
                              (SPKM)

This specification defines protocols, procedures, and conventions to be
employed by peers implementing the Generic Security Service Application
Program Interface (as specified in RFCs 1508 and 1509) when using the
Simple Public-Key Mechanism.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2024    Chen         Oct 96   Definitions of Managed Objects for Data
                              Link Switching using SMIv2

This specification defines an extension to the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with SNMP-based network management.  In particular,
it defines objects for configuring, monitoring, and controlling Data
Link Switches (DLSw).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]









Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2023    Haskin       Oct 96   IP Version 6 over PPP

This document defines the method for transmission of IP Version 6 [2]
packets over PPP links as well as the Network Control Protocol (NCP) for
establishing and configuring the IPv6 over PPP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2022    Armitage     Nov 96   Support for Multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1
                              based ATM Networks.

This memo describes a mechanism to support the multicast needs of Layer
3 protocols in general, and describes its application to IP multicasting
in particular.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2021    Waldbusser   Jan 97   Remote Network Monitoring Management
                              Information Base Version 2 using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing remote network monitoring
devices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2020    Flick        Oct 96   Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE
                              802.12 Interfaces

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing network interfaces based on
IEEE 802.12.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2019    Crawford     Oct 96   A Method for the Transmission of IPv6
                              Packets over FDDI Networks

This memo specifies the MTU and frame format for transmission of IPv6
[IPV6] packets on FDDI networks, including a method for MTU
determination in the presence of 802.1d bridges to other media.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2018    Mathis       Oct 96   TCP Selective Acknowledgment Options

This memo proposes an implementation of SACK and discusses its
performance and related issues.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2017    Freed        Oct 96   Definition of the URL
                              MIME External-Body Access-Type

This memo defines a new access-type for message/external-body MIME parts
for Uniform Resource Locators (URLs).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2016    Daigle       Oct 96   Uniform Resource Agents (URAs)

This paper presents an experimental architecture for an agent system
that provides sophisticated Internet information access and management.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2015    Elkins       Oct 96   MIME Security with Pretty Good Privacy
                              (PGP)

This document describes how Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) can be used to
provide privacy and authentication using the Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extensions (MIME) security content types described in RFC1847.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2014    Weinrib      Oct 96   IRTF Research Group Guidelines and
                              Procedures

This document describes the guidelines and procedures for formation and
operation of IRTF Research Groups.  It describes the relationship
between IRTF participants, Research Groups, the Internet Research
Steering Group (IRSG) and the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).  This
document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet
Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2013    McCloghrie   Nov 96   SNMPv2 Management Information Base for
                              the User Datagram Protocol using SMIv2

This document is the MIB module which defines managed objects for
managing implementations of the User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]











Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2012    McCloghrie   Nov 96   SNMPv2 Management Information Base for
                              the Transmission Control Protocol using
                              SMIv2

This document is the MIB module which defines managed objects for
managing implementations of the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2011    McCloghrie   Nov 96   SNMPv2 Management Information Base
                              for the Internet Protocol using SMIv2

This document is the MIB module which defines managed objects for
managing implementations of the Internet Protocol (IP) and its
associated Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2010    Manning      Oct 96   Operational Criteria for Root Name
                              Servers

This document specifies the operational requirements of root name
servers, including host hardware capacities, name server software
revisions, network connectivity, and physical environment.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2009    Imielinski   Nov 96   GPS-Based Addressing and Routing

This document describes a possible experiment with geographic addresses.
It uses several specific IP addresses and domain names in the discussion
as concrete examples to aid in understanding the concepts.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2008    Rekhter      Oct 96   Implications of Various Address
                              Allocation Policies for Internet Routing

The purpose of this document is to articulate certain relevant
fundamental technical issues that must be considered in formulating
unicast address allocation and management policies for the Public
Internet, and to provide recommendations with respect to these policies.
This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the
Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.






Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2007    Foster       Oct 96   Catalogue of Network Training Materials

The purpose of this document is to provide a catalogue of quality
Network Training Materials for use by Internet trainers in training
their users.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2006    Cong         Oct 96   The Definitions of Managed Objects for
                              IP Mobility Support using SMIv2

This memo defines the Management Information Base (MIB) for use with
network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In particular,
it describes managed objects used for managing the Mobile Node, Foreign
Agent and Home Agent of the Mobile IP Protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]



2005    Solomon      Oct 96   Applicability Statement for IP Mobility
                              Support

As required by [RFC 1264], this report discusses the applicability of
Mobile IP to provide host mobility in the Internet.  In particular, this
document describes the key features of Mobile IP and shows how the
requirements for advancement to Proposed Standard RFC have been
satisfied.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2004    Perkins      Oct 96   Minimal Encapsulation within IP

This document specifies a method by which an IP datagram may be
encapsulated (carried as payload) within an IP datagram, with less
overhead than "conventional" IP encapsulation that adds a second IP
header to each encapsulated datagram.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2003    Perkins      Oct 96   IP Encapsulation within IP

This document specifies a method by which an IP datagram may be
encapsulated (carried as payload) within an IP datagram.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]










Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997


2002    Perkins      Oct 96   IP Mobility Support

This document specifies protocol enhancements that allow transparent
routing of IP datagrams to mobile nodes in the Internet.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2001    Stevens      Jan 97   TCP Slow Start, Congestion Avoidance,
                              Fast Retransmit, and Fast Recovery
                              Algorithms

Modern implementations of TCP contain four intertwined algorithms that
have never been fully documented as Internet standards: slow start,
congestion avoidance, fast retransmit, and fast recovery.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2000    I.A.B.       Feb 97   INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
This memo is an Internet Standard.

Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Josh Elliott
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: elliott@isi.edu













Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 21]

