





Network Working Group                                           A. Ramos
Request for Comments: 2499                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                        July 1999


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 2400-2499

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2400
   through RFCs 2499.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----


2499    Ramos           July 1999       Request for Comments Summary

This memo.


2498    Mahdavi         Jan 1999        IPPM Metrics for Measuring
                                        Connectivity

This memo defines a series of metrics for connectivity between a pair of
Internet hosts.  It builds on notions introduced and discussed in RFC
2330, the IPPM framework document.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.




Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2497    Souvatzis       Jan 1999        Transmission of IPv6 Packets
                                        over ARCnet Networks

This memo specifies a frame format for transmission of IPv6 packets and
the method of forming IPv6 link-local and statelessly autoconfigured
addresses on ARCnet networks. It also specifies the content of the
Source/Target Link-layer Address option used by the Router Solicitation,
Router Advertisement, Neighbor Solicitation, Neighbor Advertisement and
Redirect messages described in, when those messages are transmitted on
an ARCnet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2496    Fowler          Jan 1999        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the DS3/E3 Interface Type

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes objects used for managing DS3 and E3
interfaces.  This document is a companion document with Definitions of
Managed Objects for the DS0 (RFC 2494), DS1/E1/DS2/E2 (RFC 2495), and
the work in progress SONET/SDH Interface Types.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2495    Fowler          Jan 1999        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the DS1, E1, DS2 and E2
                                        Interface Types

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes objects used for managing DS1, E1, DS2 and E2
interfaces.  This document is a companion document with Definitions of
Managed Objects for the DS0 (RFC 2494), DS3/E3 (RFC 2496), and the work
in progress, SONET/SDH Interface Types.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2494    Fowler          Jan 1999        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the DS0 and DS0 Bundle
                                        Interface Type

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes objects used for managing DS0 and DS0 Bundle
interfaces.  This document is a companion document with Definitions of
Managed Objects for the DS1/E1/DS2/E2 (RFC 2495), DS3/E3 (RFC 2496), and
the work in progress, SONET/SDH Interface Types.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]






Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2493    Tesink          Jan 1999        Textual Conventions for MIB
                                        Modules Using Performance
                                        History Based on 15 Minute
                                        Intervals

This document defines a set of Textual Conventions for MIB modules which
make use of performance history data based on 15 minute intervals.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2492    Armitage        Jan 1999        IPv6 over ATM Networks

This document is a companion to the ION working group's architecture
document, "IPv6 over Non Broadcast Multiple Access (NBMA) networks".  It
provides specific details on how to apply the IPv6 over NBMA
architecture to ATM networks. This architecture allows conventional
host-side operation of the IPv6 Neighbor Discovery protocol, while also
supporting the establishment of 'shortcut' ATM forwarding paths (when
using SVCs).  Operation over administratively configured Point to Point
PVCs is also supported.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2491    Armitage        Jan 1999        IPv6 over Non-Broadcast
                                        Multiple Access (NBMA) networks

This document describes a general architecture for IPv6 over NBMA
networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2490    Pullen          Jan 1999        A Simulation Model for IP
                                        Multicast with RSVP


This document describes a detailed model of IPv4 multicast with RSVP
that has been developed using the OPNET simulation package, with
protocol procedures defined in the C language.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2489    Droms           Jan 1999        Procedure for Defining New
                                        DHCP Options


This document describes the procedure for defining new DHCP options.
This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the
Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.




Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2488    Allman          Jan 1999        Enhancing TCP Over Satellite
                                        Channels using Standard
                                        Mechanisms

The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) provides reliable delivery of
data across any network path, including network paths containing
satellite channels.  While TCP works over satellite channels there are
several IETF standardized mechanisms that enable TCP to more effectively
utilize the available capacity of the network path.  This document
outlines some of these TCP mitigations.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2487    Hoffman         Jan 1999        SMTP Service Extension for
                                        Secure SMTP over TLS

This document describes an extension to the SMTP service that allows an
SMTP server and client to use transport-layer security to provide
private, authenticated communication over the Internet. This gives SMTP
agents the ability to protect some or all of their communications from
eavesdroppers and attackers.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2486    Aboba           Jan 1999        The Network Access Identifier

This document proposes syntax for the Network Access Identifier (NAI),
the userID submitted by the client during PPP authentication.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2485    Drach           Jan 1999        DHCP Option for The Open
                                        Group's User Authentication
                                        Protocol

This document defines a DHCP option that contains a list of pointers to
User Authentication Protocol servers that provide user authentication
services for clients that conform to The Open Group Network Computing
Client Technical Standard.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]












Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2484    Zorn            Jan 1999        PPP LCP Internationalization
                                        Configuration Option

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for
transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links.  PPP
also defines an extensible Link Control Protocol (LCP), which allows
negotiation of an Authentication Protocol for authenticating its peer
before allowing Network Layer protocols to transmit over the link.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2483    Mealling        Jan 1999        URI Resolution Services
                                        Necessary for URN Resolution

Retrieving the resource identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier
(URI) is only one of the operations that can be performed on a URI.  One
might also ask for and get a list of other identifiers that are aliases
for the original URI or a bibliographic description of the resource the
URI denotes, for example. This applies to both Uniform Resource Names
(URNs) and Uniform Resource Locators (URLs). Uniform Resource
Characteristics (URCs) are discussed in this document but only as
descriptions of resources rather than identifiers.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2482    Whistler        Jan 1999        Language Tagging in Unicode
                                        Plain Text

This document proposed a mechanism for language tagging in plain text.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2481    Ramakrishnan    Jan 1999        A Proposal to add Explicit
                                        Congestion Notification (ECN)
                                        to IP

This note describes a proposed addition of ECN (Explicit Congestion
Notification) to IP.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.


2480    Freed           Jan 1999        Gateways and MIME Security
                                        Multiparts

This document examines the problems associated with use of MIME security
multiparts and gateways to non-MIME environments.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2479    Adams           Dec 1998        Independent Data Unit
                                        Protection Generic Security Service
                                        Application Program Interface
                                        (IDUP-GSS-API)

The IDUP-GSS-API extends the GSS-API for applications requiring
protection of a generic data unit (such as a file or message) in a way
which is independent of the protection of any other data unit and
independent of any concurrent contact with designated "receivers" of the
data unit.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2478    Baize           Dec 1998        The Simple and Protected
                                        GSS-API Negotiation Mechanism

This document specifies a Security Negotiation Mechanism for the Generic
Security Service Application Program Interface (GSS-API).  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2477    Aboba           Jan 1999        Criteria for Evaluating
                                        Roaming Protocols

This document describes requirements for the provisioning of "roaming
capability" for dialup Internet users.  "Roaming capability" is defined
as the ability to use multiple Internet service providers (ISPs), while
maintaining a formal, customer-vendor relationship with only one.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2476    Gellens         Dec 1998        Message Submission

This memo describes a low cost, deterministic means for messages to be
identified as submissions, and specifies what actions are to be taken by
a submission server.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2475    Blake           Dec 1998        An Architecture for
                                        Differentiated Services

This document defines an architecture for implementing scalable service
differentiation in the Internet.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.








Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2474    Nichols         Dec 1998        Definition of the
                                        Differentiated Services Field
                                        (DS Field) in the IPv4 and
                                        IPv6 Headers

This document defines the IP header field, called the DS (for
differentiated services) field.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2473    Conta           Dec 1998        Generic Packet Tunneling in
                                        IPv6 Specification

This document defines the model and generic mechanisms for IPv6
encapsulation of Internet packets, such as IPv6 and IPv4.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2472    Haskin          Dec 1998        IP Version 6 over PPP

This document defines the method for transmission of IP Version 6
packets over PPP links as well as the Network Control Protocol (NCP) for
establishing and configuring the IPv6 over PPP. It also specifies the
method of forming IPv6 link-local addresses on PPP links.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2471    Hinden          Dec 1998        IPv6 Testing Address Allocation

This document describes an allocation plan for IPv6 addresses to be used
in testing IPv6 prototype software.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.


2470    Crawford        Dec 1998        Transmission of IPv6 Packets
                                        over Token Ring Networks

This memo specifies the MTU and frame format for transmission of IPv6
packets on Token Ring networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]













Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2469    Narten          Dec 1998        A Caution On The Canonical
                                        Ordering Of Link-Layer Addresses

Protocols such as ARP and Neighbor Discovery have data fields that
contain link-layer addresses. In order to interoperate properly, a
sender setting such a field must insure that the receiver extracts those
bits and interprets them correctly.  In most cases, such fields must be
in "canonical form".  Unfortunately, not all LAN adaptors are consistent
in their use of canonical form, and implementations may need to
explicitly bit swap individual bytes in order to obtain the correct
format.  This document provides information to implementors to help them
avoid the pitfall of using non-canonical forms when canonical forms are
required.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2468    Cerf            Oct 1998        I REMEMBER IANA

A long time ago, in a network, far far away, a great adventure took
place!.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2467    Crawford        Dec 1998        Transmission of IPv6 Packets
                                        over FDDI Networks

This document specifies the frame format for transmission of IPv6
packets and the method of forming IPv6 link-local addresses and
statelessly autoconfigured addresses on FDDI networks.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2466    Haskin          Dec 1998        Management Information Base
                                        for IP Version 6: ICMPv6 Group

This document is one in the series of documents that define various MIB
object groups for IPv6.  Specifically, the ICMPv6 group is defined in
this document.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2465    Haskin          Dec 1998        Management Information Base
                                        for IP Version 6: Textual
                                        Conventions and General Group

This document is one in the series of documents that provide MIB
definitions for for IP Version 6.  Specifically, the IPv6 MIB textual
conventions as well as the IPv6 MIB General group is defined in this
document.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2464    Crawford        Dec 1998        Transmission of IPv6 Packets
                                        over Ethernet Networks

This document specifies the frame format for transmission of IPv6
packets and the method of forming IPv6 link-local addresses and
statelessly autoconfigured addresses on Ethernet networks.  It also
specifies the content of the Source/Target Link-layer Address option
used in Router Solicitation, Router Advertisement, Neighbor
Solicitation, Neighbor Advertisement and Redirect messages when those
messages are transmitted on an Ethernet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2463    Conta           Dec 1998        Internet Control Message
                                        Protocol (ICMPv6) for the
                                        Internet Protocol Version 6
                                        (IPv6) Specification

This document specifies a set of Internet Control Message Protocol
(ICMP) messages for use with version 6 of the Internet Protocol (IPv6).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2462    Thomson         Dec 1998        IPv6 Stateless Address
                                        Autoconfiguration

This document specifies the steps a host takes in deciding how to
autoconfigure its interfaces in IP version 6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2461    Narten          Dec 1998        Neighbor Discovery for IP
                                        Version 6 (IPv6)

This document specifies the Neighbor Discovery protocol for IP Version
6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2460    Deering         Dec 1998        Internet Protocol, Version 6
                                        (IPv6) Specification

This document specifies version 6 of the Internet Protocol (IPv6), also
sometimes referred to as IP Next Generation or IPng.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2459    Housley         Jan 1999        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Certificate and
                                        CRL Profile

This memo profiles the X.509 v3 certificate and X.509 v2 CRL for use in
the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2458    Lu              Nov 1998        Toward the PSTN/Internet
                                        Inter-Networking --Pre-PINT
                                        Implementations

This document contains the information relevant to the development of
the inter-networking interfaces underway in the Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN)/Internet Inter-Networking (PINT) Working Group.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2457    Clouston        Nov 1998        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Extended Border Node

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network
devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Network) EBN (Extended Border
Node) capabilities.  This memo identifies managed objects for the EBN
architecture.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2456    Clouston        Nov 1998        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for APPN TRAPS

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for receiving notifications from network
devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Network) and DLUR (Dependent LU
Requester) capabilities.  This memo identifies notifications for the
APPN and DLUR architecture.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]













Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2455    Clouston        Nov 1998        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for APPN

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network
devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Networking) capabilities.  This
memo identifies managed objects for the APPN protocol.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2454    Daniele         Dec 1998        IP Version 6 Management
                                        Information Base for the User
                                        Datagram Protocol

This document is one in the series of documents that define various MIB
objects for IPv6.  Specifically, this document is the MIB module which
defines managed objects for implementations of the User Datagram
Protocol (UDP) over IP Version 6 (IPv6).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2453    Malkin          Nov 1998        RIP Version 2

This document specifies an extension of the Routing Information Protocol
(RIP) to expand the amount of useful information carried in RIP messages
and to add a measure of security.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2452    Daniele         Dec 1998        IP Version 6 Management
                                        Information Base for the
                                        Transmission Control Protocol

This document is one in the series of documents that define various MIB
objects for IPv6.  Specifically, this document is the MIB module which
defines managed objects for implementations of the Transmission Control
Protocol (TCP) over IP Version 6 (IPv6).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2451    Pereira         Nov 1998        The ESP CBC-Mode Cipher
                                        Algorithms

This document describes how to use CBC-mode cipher algorithms with the
IPSec ESP (Encapsulating Security Payload) Protocol.  It not only
clearly states how to use certain cipher algorithms, but also how to use
all CBC-mode cipher algorithms.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]






Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2450    Hinden          Dec 1998        Proposed TLA and NLA
                                        Assignment Rules

This document proposes rules for Top-Level Aggregation Identifiers (TLA
ID) and Next-Level Aggregation Identifiers (NLA ID).  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2449    Gellens         Nov 1998        POP3 Extension Mechanism

This memo updates RFC 1939 to define a mechanism to announce support for
optional commands, extensions, and unconditional server behavior.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2448    Civanlar        Nov 1998        AT&T's Error Resilient Video
                                        Transmission Technique

This document describes a set of techniques for packet loss resilient
transmission of compressed video bitstreams based on reliable delivery
of their vital information-carrying segments.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2447    Dawson          Nov 1998        iCalendar Message-Based
                                        Interoperability Protocol (iMIP)

This document specifies a binding from the iCalendar Transport-
independent Interoperability Protocol (iTIP) to Internet email-based
transports.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2446    Silverberg      Nov 1998        iCalendar Transport-Independent
                                        Interoperability Protocol (iTIP)
                                        Scheduling Events, BusyTime,
                                        To-dos and Journal Entries

This document specifies how calendaring systems use iCalendar objects to
interoperate with other calendar systems. It does so in a general way so
as to allow multiple methods of communication between systems.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]










Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2445    Dawson          Nov 1998        Internet Calendaring and
                                        Scheduling Core Object
                                        Specification (iCalendar)

This memo has been defined to provide the definition of a common format
for openly exchanging calendaring and scheduling information across the
Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2444    Newman          Oct 1998        The One-Time-Password SASL
                                        Mechanism

OTP provides a useful authentication mechanism for situations where
there is limited client or server trust.  Currently, OTP is added to
protocols in an ad-hoc fashion with heuristic parsing.  This
specification defines an OTP SASL mechanism so it can be easily and
formally integrated into many application protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2443    Luciani         Nov 1998        A Distributed MARS Service
                                        Using SCSP

This document describes a method for distributing a MARS service within
a LIS.  This method uses the Server Cache Synchronization Protocol
(SCSP) to synchronize the MARS Server databases within a LIS.  When SCSP
is used to synchronize the caches of MARS Servers in a LIS, the LIS
defines the boundary of an SCSP Server Group (SG).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2442    Freed           Nov 1998        The Batch SMTP Media Type

This document defines a MIME content type suitable for tunneling an
ESMTP transaction through any MIME-capable transport.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community


2441    Cohen           Nov 1998        Working with Jon
                                        Tribute delivered at UCLA,
                                        October 30, 1998

This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2440    Callas          Nov 1998        OpenPGP Message Format

This document is maintained in order to publish all necessary
information needed to develop interoperable applications based on the
OpenPGP format.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]



Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2439    Villamizar      Nov 1998        BGP Route Flap Damping

A usage of the BGP routing protocol is described which is capable of
reducing the routing traffic passed on to routing peers and therefore
the load on these peers without adversely affecting route convergence
time for relatively stable routes.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2438    O'Dell          Oct 1998        Advancement of MIB
                                        specifications on the IETF
                                        Standards Track

This document specifies the process which the IESG will use to determine
if a MIB specification document meets these requirements.  It also
discusses the rationale for this process.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2437    Kaliski         Oct 1998        PKCS #1: RSA Cryptography
                                        Specifications Version 2.0

This memo is the successor to RFC 2313. This document provides
recommendations for the implementation of public-key cryptography based
on the RSA algorithm.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2436    Brett           Oct 1998        Collaboration between
                                        ISOC/IETF and ITU-T

This document describes the collaboration process between the ITU-T and
ISOC/IETF.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2435    Berc            Oct 1998        RTP Payload Format for
                                        JPEG-compressed Video

This memo describes the RTP payload format for JPEG video streams.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]











Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2434    Narten          Oct 1998        Guidelines for Writing an IANA
                                        Considerations Section in RFCs

This document discusses issues that should be considered in formulating
a policy for assigning values to a name space and provides guidelines to
document authors on the specific text that must be included in documents
that place demands on the IANA.  This document specifies an Internet
Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2433    Zorn            Oct 1998        Microsoft PPP CHAP Extensions

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for
transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links.  PPP
defines an extensible Link Control Protocol and a family of Network
Control Protocols (NCPs) for establishing and configuring different
network-layer protocols.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2432    Dubray          Oct 1998        Terminology for IP Multicast
                                        Benchmarking

The purpose of this document is to define terminology specific to the
benchmarking of multicast IP forwarding devices.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2431    Tynan           Oct 1998        RTP Payload Format for BT.656
                                        Video Encoding

This document specifies the RTP payload format for encapsulating ITU
Recommendation BT.656-3 video streams in the Real-Time Transport
Protocol (RTP).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2430    Li              Oct 1998        A Provider Architecture for
                                        Differentiated Services and
                                        Traffic Engineering (PASTE)

This document describes the Provider Architecture for Differentiated
Services and Traffic Engineering (PASTE) for Internet Service Providers
(ISPs).  This memo provides information for the Internet community.







Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2429    Bormann         Oct 1998        RTP Payload Format for the
                                        1998 Version of ITU-T
                                        Rec. H.263 Video (H.263+)

This document specifies an RTP payload header format applicable to the
transmission of video streams generated based on the 1998 version of
ITU-T Recommendation H.263.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2428    Allman          Sep 1998        FTP Extensions for IPv6 and NATs

This paper specifies extensions to FTP that will allow the protocol to
work over IPv4 and IPv6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2427    Brown           Sep 1998        Multiprotocol Interconnect
                                        over Frame Relay

This memo describes an encapsulation method for carrying network
interconnect traffic over a Frame Relay backbone.  It covers aspects of
both Bridging and Routing.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2426    Dawson          Sep 1998        vCard MIME Directory Profile

This memo defines the profile of the MIME Content-Type for directory
information for a white-pages person object, based on a vCard electronic
business card.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2425    Howes           Sep 1998        A MIME Content-Type for
                                        Directory Information

This document defines a MIME Content-Type for holding directory
information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2424    Vaudreuil       Sep 1998        Content Duration MIME Header
                                        Definition

This document describes the MIME header Content-Duration that is
intended for use with any timed media content (typically audio/* or
video/*).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2423    Vaudreuil       Sep 1998        VPIM Voice Message MIME
                                        Sub-type Registration

This document describes the registration of the MIME sub-type
multipart/voice-message for use with the Voice Profile for Internet Mail
(VPIM).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

2422    Vaudreuil       Sep 1998        Toll Quality Voice - 32 kbit/s
                                        ADPCM MIME Sub-type Registration

This document describes the registration of the MIME sub-type
audio/32KADPCM for toll quality audio.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2421    Vaudreuil       Sep 1998        Voice Profile for Internet
                                        Mail - version 2

This document profiles Internet mail for voice messaging.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2420    Kummert         Sep 1998        The PPP Triple-DES Encryption
                                        Protocol (3DESE)

This document provides specific details for the use of the Triple-DES
standard (3DES) for encrypting PPP encapsulated packets.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2419    Sklower         Sep 1998        The PPP DES Encryption
                                        Protocol, Version 2 (DESE-bis)

This document provides specific details for the use of the DES standard
for encrypting PPP encapsulated packets.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2418    Bradner         Sep 1998        IETF Working Group
                                        Guidelines and Procedures

This document describes the guidelines and procedures for formation and
operation of IETF working groups.  This document specifies an Internet
Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.








Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2417    Chung           Sep 1998        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1
                                        based ATM Networks

This memo specifies a MIB module in a manner that is both compliant to
the SNMPv2 SMI, and semantically identical to the peer SNMPv1
definitions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2416    Shepard         Sep 1998        When TCP Starts Up With Four
                                        Packets Into Only Three Buffers

This memo is to document a simple experiment.  The experiment showed
that in the case of a TCP receiver behind a 9600 bps modem link at the
edge of a fast Internet where there are only 3 buffers before the modem
(and the fourth packet of a four-packet start will surely be dropped),
no significant degradation in performance is experienced by a TCP
sending with a four-packet start when compared with a normal slow start
(which starts with just one packet).  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


2415    Poduri          Sep 1998        Simulation Studies of
                                        Increased Initial TCP Window Size

This document covers some simulation studies of the effects of
increasing the initial window size of TCP.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2414    Allman          Sep 1998        Increasing TCP's Initial Window

This document specifies an increase in the permitted initial window for
TCP from one segment to roughly 4K bytes.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2413    Weibel          Sep 1998        Dublin Core Metadata for
                                        Resource Discovery

This is the first of a set of Informational RFCs describing the Dublin
Core.  Its purpose is to introduce the Dublin Core and to describe the
consensus reached on the semantics of each of the 15 elements.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.







Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2412    Orman           Nov 1998        The OAKLEY Key Determination
                                        Protocol

This document describes a protocol, named OAKLEY, by which two
authenticated parties can agree on secure and secret keying material.
The basic mechanism is the Diffie-Hellman key exchange algorithm.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2411    Thayer          Nov 1998        IP Security Document Roadmap

This document is intended to provide guidelines for the development of
collateral specifications describing the use of new encryption and
authentication algorithms with the ESP protocol, described in and new
authentication algorithms used with the AH protocol.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2410    Glenn           Nov 1998        The NULL Encryption Algorithm
                                        and Its Use With IPsec

This memo defines the NULL encryption algorithm and its use with the
IPsec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2409    Harkins         Nov 1998        The Internet Key Exchange (IKE)

This memo describes a hybrid protocol. The purpose is to negotiate, and
provide authenticated keying material for, security associations in a
protected manner.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2408    Maughan         Nov 1998        Internet Security Association
                                        and Key Management Protocol
                                        (ISAKMP)

This memo describes a protocol utilizing security concepts necessary for
establishing Security Associations (SA) and cryptographic keys in an
Internet environment.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2407    Piper           Nov 1998        The Internet IP Security
                                        Domain of Interpretation for
                                        ISAKMP

This document defines the Internet IP Security DOI (IPSEC DOI), which
instantiates ISAKMP for use with IP when IP uses ISAKMP to negotiate
security associations.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]



Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2406    Kent            Nov 1998        IP Encapsulating Security
                                        Payload (ESP)

The Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) header is designed to provide a
mix of security services in IPv4 and IPv6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2405    Madson          Nov 1998        The ESP DES-CBC Cipher
                                        Algorithm With Explicit IV

This document describes the use of the DES Cipher algorithm in Cipher
Block Chaining Mode, with an explicit IV, as a confidentiality mechanism
within the context of the IPSec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2404    Madson          Nov 1998        The Use of HMAC-SHA-1-96
                                        within ESP and AH

This memo describes the use of the HMAC algorithm in conjunction with
the SHA-1 algorithm as an authentication mechanism within the revised
IPSEC Encapsulating Security Payload and the revised IPSEC
Authentication Header.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2403    Madson          Nov 1998        The Use of HMAC-MD5-96 within
                                        ESP and AH

This memo describes the use of the HMAC algorithm in conjunction with
the MD5 algorithm as an authentication mechanism within the revised
IPSEC Encapsulating Security Payload and the revised IPSEC
Authentication Header.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2402    Kent            Nov 1998        IP Authentication Header

The IP Authentication Header (AH) is used to provide connectionless
integrity and data origin authentication for IP datagrams (hereafter
referred to as just "authentication"), and to provide protection against
replays.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]











Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


2401    Kent            Nov 1998        Security Architecture for the
                                        Internet Protocol

This memo specifies the base architecture for IPsec compliant systems.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2400    IAB             Sep 1998        INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL
                                        STANDARDS

This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in
the Internet as determined by the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
This memo is an Internet Standard.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


Security Considerations

   This memo does not affect the technical security of the Internet, but
   it does cite some security specifications.

Author's Address

   Alegre Ramos
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: ramos@isi.edu




















Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 2499                  Summary of 2400-2499                 July 1999


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 22]

