





Network Working Group                                          S. Ginoza
Request for Comments: 2999                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                      August 2001


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 2900-2999

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2900
   through RFCs 2999.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----

2999    Ginoza          Aug 2001        Request for Comments Summary

This memo.


2998    Bernet          Nov 2000        A Framework for Integrated
                                        Services Operation over
                                        Diffserv Networks

This document describes a framework by which Integrated Services may be
supported over Diffserv networks.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.





Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2997    Bernet          Nov 2000        Specification of the Null
                                        Service Type

The Null Service allows applications to identify themselves to network
Quality of Service (QoS) policy agents, using RSVP signaling.  However,
it does not require them to specify resource requirements. QoS policy
agents in the network respond by applying QoS policies appropriate for
the application (as determined by the network administrator).  This mode
of RSVP usage is particularly applicable to networks that combine
differentiated service (diffserv) QoS mechanisms with RSVP signaling.
In this environment, QoS policy agents may direct the signaled
application's traffic to a particular diffserv class of service.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2996    Bernet          Nov 2000        Format of the RSVP DCLASS
                                        Object

This document specifies the format of the DCLASS object and briefly
discusses its use.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2995    Lu              Nov 2000        Pre-SPIRITS Implementations of
                                        PSTN-initiated Services

This document describes four existing implementations of SPIRITS-like
services from Korea Telecom, Lucent Technologies, NEC, and Telia in
cooperation with Nortel Networks.  SPIRITS-like services are those
originating in the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) and
necessitating the interactions of the Internet and PSTN.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2994    Ohta            Nov 2000        A Description of the MISTY1
                                        Encryption Algorithm

This document describes a secret-key cryptosystem MISTY1, which is block
cipher with a 128-bit key, a 64-bit block and a variable number of
rounds.  It documents the algorithm description including key scheduling
part and data randomizing part.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.










Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2993    Hain            Nov 2000        Architectural Implications of
                                        NAT

This document discusses some of the architectural implications and
guidelines for implementations of Network Address Translation (NAT).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2992    Hopps           Nov 2000        Analysis of an Equal-Cost
                                        Multi-Path Algorithm

Equal-cost multi-path (ECMP) is a routing technique for routing packets
along multiple paths of equal cost.  The forwarding engine identifies
paths by next-hop.  When forwarding a packet the router must decide
which next-hop (path) to use.  This document gives an analysis of one
method for making that decision.  The analysis includes the performance
of the algorithm and the disruption caused by changes to the set of
next-hops.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2991    Thaler          Nov 2000        Multipath Issues in Unicast
                                        and Multicast Next-Hop
                                        Selection

The effect of multipath routing on a forwarder is that the forwarder
potentially has several next-hops for any given destination and must use
some method to choose which next-hop should be used for a given data
packet.  This memo summarizes current practices, problems, and
solutions.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2990    Huston          Nov 2000        Next Steps for the IP QoS
                                        Architecture

This document highlights the outstanding architectural issues relating
to the deployment and use of QoS mechanisms within internet networks,
noting those areas where further standards work may assist with the
deployment of QoS internets.  This document is the outcome of a
collaborative exercise on the part of the Internet Architecture Board.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2989    Aboba           Nov 2000        Criteria for Evaluating AAA
                                        Protocols for Network Access

This document represents a summary of Authentication, Authorization,
Accounting (AAA) protocol requirements for network access.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.



Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2988    Paxson          Nov 2000        Computing TCP's Retransmission
                                        Timer

This document defines the standard algorithm that Transmission Control
Protocol (TCP) senders are required to use to compute and manage their
retransmission timer.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2987    Hoffman         Nov 2000        Registration of Charset and
                                        Languages Media Features Tags

This document contains the registration for two media feature tags:
"charset" and "language".  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2986    Nystrom         Nov 2000        PKCS #10: Certification
                                        Request Syntax Specification
                                        Version 1.7

This memo represents a republication of PKCS #10 v1.7 from RSA
Laboratories' Public-Key Cryptography Standards (PKCS) series, and
change control is retained within the PKCS process.  The body of this
document, except for the security considerations section, is taken
directly from the PKCS #9 v2.0 or the PKCS #10 v1.7 document.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2985    Nystrom         Nov 2000        PKCS #9: Selected Object
                                        Classes and Attribute Types
                                        Version 2.0

This memo represents a republication of PKCS #9 v2.0 from RSA
Laboratories' Public-Key Cryptography Standards (PKCS) series, and
change control is retained within the PKCS process.  The body of this
document, except for the security considerations section, is taken
directly from that specification.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


2984    Adams           Oct 2000        Use of the CAST-128 Encryption
                                        Algorithm in CMS

This document specifies how to incorporate CAST-128 into the S/MIME
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) as an additional algorithm for
symmetric encryption.  [STANDARDS TRACK]






Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2983    Black           Oct 2000        Differentiated Services and
                                        Tunnels

This document considers the interaction of Differentiated Services
(diffserv) with IP tunnels of various forms.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2982    Kavasseri       Oct 2000        Distributed Management
                                        Expression MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing expressions
of MIB objects.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2981    Kavasseri       Oct 2000        Event MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects that can be used to manage and
monitor MIB objects and take action through events.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2980    Barber          Oct 2000        Common NNTP Extensions

In this document, a number of popular extensions to the Network News
Transfer Protocol (NNTP) protocol defined in RFC 977 are documented and
discussed.  While this document is not intended to serve as a standard
of any kind, it will hopefully serve as a reference document for future
implementers of the NNTP protocol.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


2979    Freed           Oct 2000        Behavior of and Requirements
                                        for Internet Firewalls

This memo defines behavioral characteristics of and interoperability
requirements for Internet firewalls.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.










Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2978    Freed           Oct 2000        IANA Charset Registration
                                        Procedures

Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) and various other Internet
protocols are capable of using many different charsets.  This in turn
means that the ability to label different charsets is essential.  This
document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet
Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2977    Glass           Oct 2000        Mobile IP Authentication,
                                        Authorization, and Accounting
                                        Requirements

This document contains the requirements which would have to be supported
by a AAA service to aid in providing Mobile IP services.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2976    Donovan         Oct 2000        The SIP INFO Method

This document proposes an extension to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP).  This extension adds the INFO method to the SIP protocol.  The
intent of the INFO method is to allow for the carrying of session
related control information that is generated during a session.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2975    Aboba           Oct 2000        Introduction to Accounting
                                        Management

This document describes and discusses the issues involved in the design
of the modern accounting systems.  The field of Accounting Management is
concerned with the collection the collection of resource consumption
data for the purposes of capacity and trend analysis, cost allocation,
auditing, and billing.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2974    Handley         Oct 2000        Session Announcement Protocol

This document describes version 2 of the multicast session directory
announcement protocol, Session Announcement Protocol (SAP), and the
related issues affecting security and scalability that should be taken
into account by implementors.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.





Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2973    Balay           Oct 2000        IS-IS Mesh Groups

This document describes a mechanism to reduce redundant packet
transmissions for the Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS)
Routing protocol, as described in ISO 10589.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2972    Popp            Oct 2000        Context and Goals for Common
                                        Name Resolution

This document establishes the context and goals for a Common Name
Resolution Protocol.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2971    Showalter       Oct 2000        IMAP4 ID extension

This document describes an ID extension which will enable Internet
Message Access Protocol - Version 4rev1 (IMAP4rev1) to advertise what
program a client or server uses to provide service.  The ID extension
allows the server and client to exchange identification information on
their implementation in order to make bug reports and usage statistics
more complete.   [STANDARDS TRACK]


2970    Daigle          Oct 2000        Architecture for Integrated
                                        Directory Services - Result
                                        from TISDAG

Drawing from experiences with the TISDAG (Technical Infrastructure for
Swedish Directory Access Gateways) project, this document outlines an
approach to providing the necessary infrastructure for integrating such
widely-scattered servers into a single service, rather than attempting
to mandate a single protocol and schema set for all participating
servers to use.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.














Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2969    Eklof           Oct 2000        Wide Area Directory Deployment
                                        - Experiences from TISDAG

This document catalogues some of the experiences gained in developing
the necessary infrastructure for a national (i.e., multi-organizational)
directory service and pilot deployment of the service in an environment
with off-the-shelf directory service products.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2968    Daigle          Oct 2000        Mesh of Multiple DAG servers -
                                        Results from TISDAG

This document defines the basic principle for establishing a mesh, that
interoperating services should exchange index objects, according to the
architecture of the mesh (e.g., hierarchical, or graph-like, preferably
without loops!).  The Common Indexing Protocol (CIP) is designed to
facilitate the creation not only of query referral indexes, but also of
meshes of (loosely) affiliated referral indexes.  The purpose of such a
mesh of servers is to implement some kind of distributed sharing of
indexing and/or searching tasks across different servers.  So far, the
TISDAG (Technical Infrastructure for Swedish Directory Access Gateways)
project has focused on creating a single referral index; the obvious
next step is to integrate that into a larger set of interoperating
services.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2967    Daigle          Oct 2000        TISDAG - Technical
                                        Infrastructure for Swedish
                                        Directory Access Gateways

The overarching goal of this project is to develop the necessary
technical infrastructure to provide a single-access-point service for
searching for whitepages information on Swedish Internet users.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2966    Li              Oct 2000        Domain-wide Prefix
                                        Distribution with Two-Level
                                        IS-IS

This document describes extensions to the Intermediate System to
Intermediate System (IS-IS) protocol to support optimal routing within a
two-level domain.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.






Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2965    Kristol         Oct 2000        HTTP State Management
                                        Mechanism

This document specifies a way to create a stateful session with
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) requests and responses.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


2964    Moore           Oct 2000        Use of HTTP State Management

This memo identifies specific uses of Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
State Management protocol which are either (a) not recommended by the
IETF, or (b) believed to be harmful, and discouraged.  This memo also
details additional privacy considerations which are not covered by the
HTTP State Management protocol specification.  This document specifies
an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and
requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2963    Bonaventure     Oct 2000        A Rate Adaptive Shaper for
                                        Differentiated Services

This memo describes several Rate Adaptive Shapers (RAS) that can be used
in combination with the single rate Three Color Markers (srTCM) and the
two rate Three Color Marker (trTCM) described in RFC2697 and RFC2698,
respectively.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2962    Raz             Oct 2000           An SNMP Application Level
                                           Gateway for Payload Address
                                           Translation

This document describes the ALG (Application Level Gateway) for the SNMP
(Simple Network Management Protocol) by which IP (Internet Protocol)
addresses in the payload of SNMP packets are statically mapped from one
group to another.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.













Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2961    Berger          Apr 2001        RSVP Refresh Overhead
                                        Reduction Extensions

This document describes a number of mechanisms that can be used to
reduce processing overhead requirements of refresh messages, eliminate
the state synchronization latency incurred when an RSVP (Resource
ReserVation Protocol) message is lost and, when desired, refreshing
state without the transmission of whole refresh messages.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


2960    Stewart         Oct 2000        Stream Control Transmission
                                        Protocol

This document describes the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2959    Baugher         Oct 2000        Real-Time Transport Protocol
                                        Management Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2958    Daigle          Oct 2000        The application/whoispp-
                                        response Content-type

The intention of this document, in conjunction with RFC 2957, is to
enable MIME-enabled mail software, and other systems using Internet
media types, to carry out Whois++ transactions.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2957    Daigle          Oct 2000        The application/whoispp-query
                                        Content-Type

The intention of this document, in conjunction with RFC 2958, is to
enable MIME-enabled mail software, and other systems using Internet
media types, to carry out Whois++ transactions.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.









Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2956    Kaat            Oct 2000        Overview of 1999 IAB Network
                                        Layer Workshop

This document is an overview of a workshop held by the Internet
Architecture Board (IAB) on the Internet Network Layer architecture
hosted by SURFnet in Utrecht, the Netherlands on 7-9 July 1999.  The
goal of the workshop was to understand the state of the network layer
and its impact on continued growth and usage of the Internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2955    Rehbehn         Oct 2000        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Monitoring and Controlling
                                        the Frame Relay/ATM PVC Service
                                        Interworking Function

This memo defines a Management Information Base (MIB) to configure,
monitor, and control a service interworking function (IWF) for Permanent
Virtual Connections (PVC) between Frame Relay and Asynchronous Transfer
Mode (ATM) technologies.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2954    Rehbehn         Oct 2000        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Frame Relay Service

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in Transmission Control
Protocol/Internet Protocol-based (TCP/IP) internets.  In particular, it
defines objects for managing the frame relay service.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2953    Ts'o            Sep 2000        Telnet Encryption: DES 64 bit
                                        Output Feedback

This document specifies how to use the data encryption standard (DES)
encryption algorithm in output feedback mode with the telnet encryption
option.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2952    Ts'o            Sep 2000        Telnet Encryption: DES 64 bit
                                        Cipher Feedback

This document specifies how to use the DES encryption algorithm in
cipher feedback mode with the telnet encryption option.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.






Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2951    Housley         Sep 2000        TELNET Authentication Using
                                        KEA and SKIPJACK

This document defines a method to authenticate TELNET using the Key
Exchange Algorithm (KEA), and encryption of the TELNET stream using
SKIPJACK.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2950    Altman          Sep 2000        Telnet Encryption: CAST-128 64
                                        bit Cipher Feedback

This document specifies how to use the CAST-128 encryption algorithm in
cipher feedback mode with the telnet encryption option.  Two key sizes
are defined: 40 bit and 128 bit.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2949    Altman          Sep 2000        Telnet Encryption: CAST-128 64
                                        bit Output Feedback

This document specifies how to use the CAST-128 encryption algorithm in
output feedback mode with the telnet encryption option.  Two key sizes
are defined: 40 bit and 128 bit.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2948    Altman          Sep 2000        Telnet Encryption: DES3 64 bit
                                        Output Feedback

This document specifies how to use the Triple-DES (data encryption
standard) encryption algorithm in output feedback mode with the telnet
encryption option.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2947    Altman          Sep 2000        Telnet Encryption: DES3 64 bit
                                        Cipher Feedback

This document specifies how to use the Triple-DES (data encryption
standard) encryption algorithm in cipher feedback mode with the telnet
encryption option.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2946    Ts'o            Sep 2000        Telnet Data Encryption Option

This document describes a the telnet encryption option as a generic
method of providing data confidentiality services for the telnet data
stream.  [STANDARDS TRACK]






Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2945    Wu              Sep 2000        The SRP Authentication and Key
                                        Exchange System

This document describes a cryptographically strong network
authentication mechanism known as the Secure Remote Password (SRP)
protocol.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2944    Wu              Sep 2000        Telnet Authentication: SRP

This document specifies an authentication scheme for the Telnet protocol
under the framework described in RFC 2941, using the Secure Remote
Password Protocol (SRP) authentication mechanism.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2943    Housley         Sep 2000        TELNET Authentication Using
                                        DSA

This document defines a telnet authentication mechanism using the
Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA).  It relies on the Telnet
Authentication Option.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2942    Ts'o            Sep 2000        Telnet Authentication:
                                        Kerberos Version 5

This document describes how Kerberos Version 5 is used with the telnet
protocol.   It describes an telnet authentication suboption to be used
with the telnet authentication option.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2941    Ts'o            Sep 2000        Telnet Authentication Option

This document describes the authentication option to the telnet protocol
as a generic method for negotiating an authentication type and mode
including whether encryption should be used and if credentials should be
forwarded.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2940    Smith           Oct 2000        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Common Open Policy Service
                                        (COPS) Protocol Clients

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP based internets.  In
particular it defines objects for managing a client of the Common Open
Policy Service (COPS) protocol.  [STANDARDS TRACK]




Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2939    Droms           Sep 2000        Procedures and IANA Guidelines
                                        for Definition of New DHCP
                                        Options and Message Types

This document describes the procedure for defining new DHCP options and
message types.  This document specifies an Internet Best Current
Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion and
suggestions for improvements.


2938    Klyne           Sep 2000        Identifying Composite Media
                                        Features

This document describes an abbreviated format for a composite media
feature set, based upon a hash of the feature expression describing that
composite.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2937    Smith           Sep 2000        The Name Service Search Option
                                        for DHCP

This document defines a new Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
option which is passed from the DHCP Server to the DHCP Client to
specify the order in which name services should be consulted when
resolving hostnames and other information.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2936    Eastlake        Sep 2000        HTTP MIME Type Handler
                                        Detection

Entities composing web pages to provide services over the Hypertext
Transfer Protocol (HTTP) frequently have the problem of not knowing what
Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) types have handlers
installed at a user's browser.  This document summarizes reasonable
techniques to solve this problem for most of the browsers actually
deployed on the Internet as of early 2000.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2935    Eastlake        Sep 2000        Internet Open Trading Protocol
                                        (IOTP) HTTP Supplement

The goal of mapping to the transport layer is to ensure that the
underlying XML documents are carried successfully between the various
parties.  This document describes that mapping for the Hyper Text
Transport Protocol (HTTP), Versions 1.0 and 1.1.  [STANDARDS TRACK]





Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2934    McCloghrie      Oct 2000        Protocol Independent Multicast
                                        MIB for IPv4

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing the Protocol
Independent Multicast (PIM) protocol for IPv4.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2933    McCloghrie      Oct 2000        Internet Group Management
                                        Protocol MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes objects used for managing the Internet Group
Management Protocol (IGMP).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2932    McCloghrie      Oct 2000        IPv4 Multicast Routing MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing IP Multicast
Routing for IPv4, independent of the specific multicast routing protocol
in use.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2931    Eastlake        Sep 2000        DNS Request and Transaction
                                        Signatures ( SIG(0)s )

This document describes the minor but non-interoperable changes in
Request and Transaction signature resource records ( SIG(0)s ) that
implementation experience has deemed necessary.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2930    Eastlake        Sep 2000        Secret Key Establishment for
                                        DNS (TKEY RR)

This document describes a Transaction Key (TKEY) RR that can be used in
a number of different modes to establish shared secret keys between a
DNS resolver and server.  [STANDARDS TRACK]









Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2929    Eastlake        Sep 2000        Domain Name System (DNS) IANA
                                        Considerations

This document discusses the Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA)
parameter assignment considerations given for the allocation of Domain
Name System (DNS) classes, Resource Record (RR) types, operation codes,
error codes, etc.  This document specifies an Internet Best Current
Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion and
suggestions for improvements.


2928    Hinden          Sep 2000        Initial IPv6 Sub-TLA ID
                                        Assignments

This document defines initial assignments of IPv6 Sub-Top-Level
Aggregation Identifiers (Sub-TLA ID) to the Address Registries.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2927    Wahl            Sep 2000        MIME Directory Profile for
                                        LDAP Schema

This document defines a multipurpose internet mail extensions (MIME)
directory profile for holding a lightweight directory access protocol
(LDAP) schema.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2926    Kempf           Sep 2000        Conversion of LDAP Schemas to
                                        and from SLP Templates

This document describes a procedure for mapping between Service Location
Protocol (SLP) service advertisements and lightweight directory access
protocol (LDAP) descriptions of services.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2925    White           Sep 2000        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Remote Ping, Traceroute,
                                        and Lookup Operations

This memo defines Management Information Bases (MIBs) for performing
remote ping, traceroute and lookup operations at a remote host.
[STANDARDS TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2924    Brownlee        Sep 2000        Accounting Attributes and
                                        Record Formats

This document summarises Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and
International Telecommunication Union (ITU-T) documents related to
Accounting.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2923    Lahey           Sep 2000        TCP Problems with Path MTU
                                        Discovery

This memo catalogs several known Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
implementation problems dealing with Path Maximum Transmission Unit
Discovery (PMTUD), including the long-standing black hole problem,
stretch acknowlegements (ACKs) due to confusion between Maximum Segment
Size (MSS) and segment size, and MSS advertisement based on PMTU.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2922    Bierman         Sep 2000        Physical Topology MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing physical
topology identification and discovery.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


2921    Fink            Sep 2000        6BONE pTLA and pNLA Formats
                                        (pTLA)

This memo defines how the 6bone uses the 3FFE::/16 IPv6 address prefix,
allocated in RFC 2471, "IPv6 Testing Address Allocation", to create
pseudo Top-Level Aggregation Identifiers (pTLA's) and pseudo Next-Level
Aggregation Identifiers (pNLA's).  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


2920    Freed           Sep 2000        SMTP Service Extension for
                                        Command Pipelining

This memo defines an extension to the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
(SMTP) service whereby a server can indicate the extent of its ability
to accept multiple commands in a single Transmission Control Protocol
(TCP) send operation.  [STANDARDS TRACK]






Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2919    Chandhok        Mar 2001        List-Id: A Structured Field
                                        and Namespace for the
                                        Identification of Mailing
                                        Lists

Software that handles electronic mailing list messages (servers and user
agents) needs a way to reliably identify messages that belong to a
particular mailing list.  With the advent of list management headers, it
has become even more important to provide a unique identifier for a
mailing list regardless of the particular host that serves as the list
processor at any given time.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2918    Chen            Sep 2000        Route Refresh Capability for
                                        BGP-4


This document defines a new Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) capability
termed 'Route Refresh Capability', which would allow the dynamic
exchange of route refresh request between BGP speakers and subsequent
re-advertisement of the respective Adj-RIB-Out.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2917    Muthukrishnan   Sep 2000        A Core MPLS IP VPN
                                        Architecture

This memo presents an approach for building core Virtual Private Network
(VPN) services in a service provider's MPLS backbone.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2916    Faltstrom       Sep 2000        E.164 number and DNS

This document discusses the use of the Domain Name System (DNS) for
storage of E.164 numbers.  [Standards Track]


2915    Mealling        Sep 2000        The Naming Authority Pointer
                                        (NAPTR) DNS Resource Record

This document describes a Domain Name System (DNS) resource record which
specifies a regular expression based rewrite rule that, when applied to
an existing string, will produce a new domain label or Uniform Resource
Identifier (URI).  [STANDARDS TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2914    Floyd           Sep 2000        Congestion Control Principles

The goal of this document is to explain the need for congestion control
in the Internet, and to discuss what constitutes correct congestion
control.  This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for
the Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.


2913    Klyne           Sep 2000        MIME Content Types in Media
                                        Feature Expressions

This memo defines a media feature tag whose value is a Multipurpose
Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) content type.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2912    Klyne           Sep 2000        Indicating Media Features for
                                        MIME Content

This memo defines a Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) '
Content-features:' header that can be used to annotate a MIME message
part using this expression format, and indicates some ways it might be
used.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2911    Hastings        Sep 2000        Internet Printing
                                        Protocol/1.1: Model and
                                        Semantics

This document is one of a set of documents, which together describe all
aspects of a new Internet Printing Protocol (IPP).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2910    Herriot         Sep 2000        Internet Printing
                                        Protocol/1.1: Encoding and
                                        Transport

This document is one of a set of documents, which together describe all
aspects of a new Internet Printing Protocol (IPP).  [STANDARDS TRACK]












Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2909    Radoslavov      Sep 2000        The Multicast Address-Set
                                        Claim (MASC) Protocol

This document describes the Multicast Address-Set Claim (MASC) protocol
which can be used for inter-domain multicast address set allocation.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2908    Thaler          Sep 2000        The Internet Multicast Address
                                        Allocation Architecture

This document proposes a multicast address allocation architecture
(MALLOC) for the Internet.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2907    Kermode         Sep 2000        MADCAP Multicast Scope Nesting
                                        State Option

This document defines a new option to the Multicast Address Dynamic
Client Allocation Protocol (MADCAP) to support nested scoping.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2906    Farrell         Aug 2000        AAA Authorization Requirements


This document specifies the requirements that Authentication
Authorization Accounting (AAA) protocols must meet in order to support
authorization services in the Internet.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


2905    Vollbrecht      Aug 2000        AAA Authorization Application
                                        Examples

This memo describes several examples of applications requiring
authorization.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2904    Vollbrecht      Aug 2000        AAA Authorization Framework

This memo serves as the base requirements for Authorization of Internet
Resources and Services (AIRS).  It presents an architectural framework
for understanding the authorization of Internet resources and services
and derives requirements for authorization protocols.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.



Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


2903    de Laat         Aug 2000        Generic AAA Architecture

This memo proposes an Authentication, Authorization, Accounting (AAA)
architecture that would incorporate a generic AAA server along with an
application interface to a set of Application Specific Modules that
could perform application specific AAA functions.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2902    Deering         Aug 2000        Overview of the 1998 IAB
                                        Routing Workshop

This document is an overview of a Routing workshop held by the Internet
Architecture Board (IAB) during March 25-27, 1998.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2901    Wenzel          Aug 2000        Guide to Administrative
                                        Procedures of the Internet
                                        Infrastructure

This document describes the administrative procedures for networks
seeking to connect to the global Internet.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2900    Reynolds        Aug 2001        Internet Official Protocol
                                        Standards

This memo contains a snapshot of the state of standardization of
protocols used in the Internet as of July 17, 2001.  It lists official
protocol standards and Best Current Practice RFCs; it is not a complete
index to the RFC series.  This memo is an Internet Standard.

Security Considerations

   This memo does not affect the technical security of the Internet, but
   may cite important security specifications.













Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


Author's Address

   Sandy Ginoza
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: ginoza@isi.edu








































Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 22]

RFC 2999                  Summary of 2900-2999               August 2001


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 23]

