





Network Working Group                                        A. DeLaCruz
Request for Comments: 2599                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                       March 2000


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 2500-2599

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2500
   through RFCs 2599.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----


2599    Delacruz        Mar 2000        Request for Comments Summary

This memo.


2598    Jacobson        Jun 1999        An Expedited Forwarding PHB

The definition of PHBs (per-hop forwarding behaviors) is a critical part
of the work of the Diffserv Working Group.  This document describes a
PHB called Expedited Forwarding.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]






DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2597    Heinanen        Jun 1999        Assured Forwarding PHB Group

This document defines a general use Differentiated Services (DS)
Per-Hop-Behavior (PHB) Group called Assured Forwarding (AF).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2596    Wahl            May 1999        Use of Language Codes in LDAP

This document describes how language codes are carried in LDAP and are
to be interpreted by LDAP servers.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2595    Newman          Jun 1999        Using TLS with IMAP, POP3
                                        and ACAP

Recognizing that such sites will desire simple password authentication
in combination with TLS encryption, this specification defines the PLAIN
SASL mechanism for use with protocols which lack a simple password
authentication command such as ACAP and SMTP.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2594    Hazewinkel      May 1999        Definitions of Managed
                                        Objects for WWW Services

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet Community. In
particular it describes a set of objects for managing World Wide Web
(WWW) services.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2593    Schoenwaelder    May 1999       Script MIB Extensibility
                                        Protocol Version 1.0

The Script MIB extensibility protocol (SMX) defined in this memo
separates language specific runtime systems from language independent
Script MIB implementations. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.













DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2592    Levi            May 1999        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the Delegation of
                                        Management Scripts

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
In particular, it describes a set of managed objects that allow the
delegation of management scripts to distributed managers.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2591     Levi            May 1999       Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Scheduling Management
                                        Operations

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2590    Conta            May 1999       Transmission of IPv6 Packets
                                        over Frame Relay Networks
                                        Specification

This memo describes mechanisms for the transmission of IPv6 packets over
Frame Relay networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2589    Yaacovi         May 1999        Lightweight Directory Access
                                        Protocol (v3): Extensions for
                                        Dynamic Directory Services

This document defines the requirements for dynamic directory services
and specifies the format of request and response extended operations for
supporting client-server interoperation in a dynamic directories
environment.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2588    Finlayson       May 1999        IP Multicast and Firewalls

In this document, we discuss the issues surrounding the traversal of IP
multicast traffic across a firewall, and describe possible ways in which
a firewall can implement and control this traversal.  We also explain
why some firewall mechanisms - such as SOCKS - that were designed
specifically for unicast traffic, are less appropriate for multicast.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.





DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2587     Boeyen         Jun 1999        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure LDAPv2 Schema

The schema defined in this document is a minimal schema to support PKIX
in an LDAPv2 environment, as defined in RFC 2559.  Only PKIX-specific
components are specified here.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2586    Salsman         May 1999       The Audio/L16 MIME content type

This document defines the audio/L16 MIME type, a reasonable quality
audio format for use in Internet applications.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2585     Housley        May 1999        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Operational
                                        The protocol conventions
                                        Protocols: FTP and HTTP

The protocol conventions described in this document satisfy some of the
operational requirements of the Internet Public Key Infrastructure
(PKI).  This document specifies the conventions for using the File
Transfer Protocol (FTP) and the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) to
obtain certificates and certificate revocation lists (CRLs) from PKI
repositories.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2584     Clouston        May 1999       Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for APPN/HPR in IP Networks

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community. In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling HPR (High
Performance Routing) network devices which have the capability to
communicate in IP (Internet Protocol) networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2583    Carlson         May 1999        Guidelines for Next Hop Client
                                        (NHC) Developers

This document provides guidelines for developers of the Next Hop
Resolution Protocol Clients (NHC).  The intent is to define the
interaction between the NHC code and the TCP/IP protocol stack of the
local host operating system. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.





DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2582    Floyd           Apr 1999        The NewReno Modification to
                                        TCP's Fast Recovery Algorithm

This document describes a specific algorithm for responding to partial
acknowledgments, referred to as NewReno.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2581    Allman           Apr 1999       TCP Congestion Control

This document defines TCP's four intertwined congestion control
algorithms: slow start, congestion avoidance, fast retransmit, and fast
recovery.  In addition, the document specifies how TCP should begin
transmission after a relatively long idle period, as well as discussing
various acknowledgment generation methods.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2580    McCloghrie       Apr 1999       Conformance Statements for SMIv2

Collections of related objects are defined in MIB modules.  It may be
useful to define the acceptable lower-bounds of implementation, along
with the actual level of implementation achieved.  It is the purpose
of this document to define the notation used for these purposes.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2579    McCloghrie      Apr 1999        Textual Conventions for SMIv2

It is the purpose of this document to define the initial set of textual
conventions available to all MIB modules.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2578    McCloghrie       Apr 1999       Structure of Management
                                        Information Version 2 (SMIv2)

It is the purpose of this document, the Structure of Management
Information Version 2 (SMIv2), to define that adapted subset, and to
assign a set of associated administrative values.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2577    Allman          May 1999        FTP Security Considerations

This document provides suggestions for system administrators and those
implementing FTP servers that will decrease the security problems
associated with FTP.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.





DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2576    Frye            March 2000      Coexistence between Version 1,
                                        Version 2, and Version 3 of
                                        the Internet-standard Network
                                        Management Framework

The purpose of this document is to describe coexistence between
version 3 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework,
(SNMPv3), version 2 of the Internet-standard Network Management
Framework (SNMPv2), and the original Internet-standard Network
Management Framework (SNMPv1).  [STANDARDS TRACK]

2575    Wijnen           Apr 1999       View-based Access Control
                                        Model (VACM) for the Simple
                                        Network Management
                                        Protocol (SNMP)

This document describes the View-based Access Control Model for use in
the SNMP architecture (RFC2571).  It defines the Elements of Procedure
for controlling access to management information.  This document also
includes a MIB for remotely managing the configuration parameters for
the View-based Access Control Model.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2574    Blumenthal       Apr 1999       User-based Security Model
                                        (USM) for version 3 of the
                                        Simple Network Management
                                        Protocol (SNMPv3)

This document describes the User-based Security Model (USM) for SNMP
version 3 for use in the SNMP architecture.  It defines the Elements
of Procedure for providing SNMP message level security.  This document
also includes a MIB for remotely monitoring/managing the configuration
parameters for this Security Model.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2573     Levi            Apr 1999       SNMP Applications

This memo describes five types of SNMP applications which make use of
an SNMP engine. This memo also defines MIB modules for specifying
targets of management operations, for notification filtering, and for
proxy fowarding.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2572    Case            May 1999        Message Processing and
                                        Dispatching for the Simple
                                        Network Management Protocol
                                        (SNMP)

This document describes the Message Processing and Dispatching for
SNMP messages within the SNMP architecture.  It defines the procedures
for dispatching potentially multiple versions of SNMP messages to the
proper SNMP Message Processing Models, and for dispatching PDUs to
SNMP applications.  This document also describes one Message
Processing Model - the SNMPv3 Message Processing Model.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2571    Harrington      May 1999        An Architecture for Describing
                                        SNMP Management Frameworks

This document describes an architecture for describing SNMP Management
Frameworks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2570    Case            Apr 1999        Introduction to Version 3
                                        of the Internet-standard
                                        Network Management Framework

The purpose of this document is to provide an overview of the third
version of the Internet-standard Management Framework, termed the SNMP
version 3 Framework (SNMPv3). This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2569    Herriot         Apr 1999        Mapping between LPD and IPP
                                        Protocols

This document is one of a set of documents, which together describe all
aspects of a new Internet Printing Protocol (IPP). One of the purposes
of this document is to compare the functionality of the two protocols.
Another purpose is to facilitate implementation of gateways between LPD
and IPP.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.











DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2568    Zilles          Apr 1999        Rationale for the Structure of
                                        the Model and Protocol for the
                                        Internet Printing Protocol

This document describes IPP from a high level view, defines a roadmap
for the various documents that form the suite of IPP specifications, and
gives background and rationale for the IETF working group's major
decisions. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


2567    Wright          Apr 1999        Design Goals for an Internet
                                        Printing Protocol

This document takes a broad look at distributed printing functionality,
and it enumerates real-life scenarios that help to clarify the features
that need to be included in a printing protocol for the Internet.  It
identifies requirements for three types of users: end users, operators,
and administrators.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.


2566     deBry          Apr 1999        Internet Printing
                                        Protocol/1.0: Model and
                                        Semantics

This document describes a simplified model consisting of abstract
objects, their attributes, and their operations that is independent of
encoding and transport.  This document also addresses security,
internationalization, and directory issues. This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2565    Herriot          Apr 1999       Internet Printing
                                        Protocol/1.0: Encoding and
                                        Transport

This document defines the rules for encoding IPP operations and IPP
attributes into a new Internet mime media type called "application/ipp".
This document also defines the rules for transporting over HTTP a
message body whose Content-Type is "application/ipp". This document
defines an Experimental protocol for the Internet community.









DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2564    Kalbfleisch     May 1999        Application Management MIB

This memo defines a standards track portion of the Management
Information Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the
Internet Community.  In particular, it defines objects used for the
management of applications.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2563    Troll           May 1999        DHCP Option to Disable
                                        Stateless Auto-Configuration in
                                        IPv4 Clients

This document describes a mechanism by which DHCP servers are able to
tell clients that they do not have an IP address to offer, and that the
client should not generate an IP address it's own.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2562    White           Apr 1999        Definitions of Protocol and
                                        Managed Objects for TN3270E
                                        Response Time Collection Using
                                        SMIv2 (TN3270E-RT-MIB)

This memo defines the protocol and the Management Information Base (MIB)
for performing response time data collection on TN3270 and TN3270E
sessions by a TN3270E server.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

2561     White          Apr 1999        Base Definitions of Managed
                                        Objects for TN3270E Using SMIv2

This memo defines a Management Information Base (MIB) for configuring
and managing TN3270E servers.  The MIB defined by this memo provides
generic support for both host and gateway TN3270E server
implementations.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2560    Myers           Jun 1999        X.509 Internet Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Online
                                        Certificate Status
                                        Protocol - OCSP

This document specifies a protocol useful in determining the current
status of a digital certificate without requiring CRLs.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]








DeLaCruz                     Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2559    Boeyen           Apr 1999       Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Operational
                                        Protocols - LDAPv2

Specifically, this document addresses requirements to provide access to
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) repositories for the purposes of
retrieving PKI information and managing that same information.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2558    Tesink          Mar 1999        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the SONET/SDH Interface Type

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing Synchronous Optical
Network/Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SONET/SDH) interfaces.  This
document is a companion to the documents that define Managed Objects for
the DS1/E1/DS2/E2 and DS3/E3 Interface Types. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2557     Palme           Mar 1999       MIME Encapsulation of
                                        Aggregate Documents, such
                                        as HTML (MHTML)

This document a) defines the use of a MIME multipart/related structure
to aggregate a text/html root resource and the subsidiary resources it
references, and b) specifies a MIME content-header (Content-Location)
that allow URIs in a multipart/related text/html root body part to
reference subsidiary resources in other body parts of the same
multipart/related structure.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2556    Bradner          Mar 1999       OSI connectionless transport
                                        services on top of UDP
                                        Applicability Statement for
                                        Historic Status

RFC 1240, "OSI connectionless transport services on top of UDP", was
published as a Proposed Standard in June 1991 but at this time there do
not seem to be any implementations which follow RFC 1240.  In addition
there is a growing concern over using UDP-based transport protocols in
environments where congestion is a possibility This memo provides
information for the Internet community.







DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2555     RFC Editor     Apr 1999        30 Years of RFCs

The rest of this document contains a brief recollection from the present
RFC Editor Joyce K. Reynolds, followed by recollections from three
pioneers: Steve Crocker who wrote RFC 1, Vint Cerf whose long-range
vision continues to guide us, and Jake Feinler who played a key role in
the middle years of the RFC series. This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


2554    Myers           Mar 1999        SMTP Service Extension

This document defines an SMTP service extension [ESMTP] whereby an SMTP
client may indicate an authentication mechanism to the server, perform
an authentication protocol exchange, and optionally negotiate a security
layer for subsequent protocol interactions.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2553    Gilligan        Mar 1999        Basic Socket Interface
                                        Extensions for IPv6

TCP/IP applications written using the sockets API have in the past
enjoyed a high degree of portability and we would like the same
portability with IPv6 applications.  But changes are required to the
sockets API to support IPv6 and this memo describes these changes.
These include a new socket address structure to carry IPv6 addresses,
new address conversion functions, and some new socket options.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2552    Blinov          Apr 1999        Architecture for Information
                                        Brokerage in the ACTS Project
                                        GAIA

This memo introduces a domain and supplier independent generic
architecture for information brokerage, designed as part of the ACTS
project GAIA (Generic Architecture for Information Availability). This
memo provides information for the Internet community.













DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2551    Bradner         1 Apr 1999      The Roman Standards Process --
                                        Revision III

This memo documents the process used by the Roman community for the
standardization of protocols and procedures.  It defines the stages in
the standardization process, the requirements for moving a document
between stages and the types of documents used during this process.  It
also addresses the intellectual property rights and copyright issues
associated with the standards process.


2550    Glassman         1 Apr 1999     Y10K and Beyond

This specification provides a solution to the "Y10K" problem which has
also been called the "YAK" problem (hex) and the "YXK" problem (Roman
numerals). This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2549     Waitzman        1 Apr 1999     IP over Avian Carriers with
                                        Quality of Service

This memo amends RFC 1149, "A Standard for the Transmission of IP
Datagrams on Avian Carriers", with Quality of Service information.  This
is an experimental, not recommended standard. This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2548    Zorn            Mar 1999        Microsoft Vendor-specific
                                        RADIUS Attributes

This document describes the set of Microsoft vendor-specific RADIUS
attributes.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2547    Rosen            Mar 1999       BGP/MPLS VPNs

This document describes a method by which a Service Provider with an IP
backbone may provide VPNs (Virtual Private Networks) for its customers.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.












DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2546    Durand          Mar 1999        6Bone Routing Practice

This memo identifies guidelines on how 6Bone sites might operate, so
that the 6Bone can remain a quality experimentation environment and to
avoid pathological situations that have been encountered in the past.
It defines the 'best current practice' acceptable in the 6Bone for the
configuration of both Interior Gateway Protocols and Exterior Gateway
Protocols. This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2545    Marques         Mar 1999        Use of BGP-4 Multiprotocol
                                        Extensions for IPv6
                                        Inter-Domain Routing

BGP-4 Multiprotocol Extensions (BGP-MP) defines the format of two BGP
attributes (MP_REACH_NLRI and MP_UNREACH_NLRI) that can be used to
announce and withdraw the announcement of reachability information.
This document defines how compliant systems should make use of those
attributes for the purpose of conveying IPv6 routing information.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2544    Bradner         Mar 1999        Benchmarking Methodology
                                        for Network Interconnect Devices

This document is a republication of RFC 1944 correcting the values for
the IP addresses which were assigned to be used as the default addresses
for networking test equipment. This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2543    Handley         Mar 1999        SIP: Session Initiation Protocol

The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is an application-layer control
(signaling) protocol for creating, modifying and terminating sessions
with one or more participants.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2542    Masinter        Mar 1999        Terminology and Goals for
                                        Internet Fax

This document defines a number of terms useful for the discussion of
Internet Fax. In addition, it describes the goals of the Internet Fax
working group and establishes a baseline of desired functionality
against which protocols for Internet Fax can be judged. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.





DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2541    Eastlake         Mar 1999       DNS Security Operational
                                        Consideration

This document discusses these operational aspects for keys and
signatures used in connection with the KEY and SIG DNS resource records.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2540    Eastlake         Mar 1999       Detached Domain Name System
                                        (DNS) Information

A standard format is defined for representing detached DNS information.
This is anticipated to be of use for storing information retrieved from
the Domain Name System (DNS), including security information, in
archival contexts or contexts not connected to the Internet. This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2539    Eastlake         Mar 1999       Storage of Diffie-Hellman
                                        Keys in the Domain Name
                                        System (DNS)

A standard method for storing Diffie-Hellman keys in the Domain Name
System is described which utilizes DNS KEY resource records.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2538     Eastlake       Mar 1999        Storing Certificates in the
                                        Domain Name System (DNS)

Cryptographic public key are frequently published and their authenticity
demonstrated by certificates.  A CERT resource record (RR) is defined so
that such certificates and related certificate revocation lists can be
stored in the Domain Name System (DNS).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2537    Eastlake        Mar 1999        RSA/MD5 KEYs and SIGs in
                                        the Domain Name System (DNS)

A standard method for storing RSA keys and and RSA/MD5 based signatures
in the Domain Name System is described which utilizes DNS KEY and SIG
resource records.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]









DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2536     Eastlake        Mar 1999       DSA KEYs and SIGs in the
                                        Domain Name System (DNS)

A standard method for storing US Government Digital Signature Algorithm
keys and signatures in the Domain Name System is described which
utilizes DNS KEY and SIG resource records.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2535    Eastlake        Mar 1999        Domain Name System Security
                                        Extensions

This document incorporates feedback on RFC 2065 from early implementers
and potential users.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2534    Masinter        Mar 1999        Media Features for Display,
                                        Print, and Fax

This specification defines some common media features for describing
image resolution, size, color, and image representation methods that are
common to web browsing, printing, and facsimile applications.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2533     Klyne          Mar 1999        A Syntax for Describing Media
                                        Feature Sets

This document introduces and describes a syntax that can be used to
define feature sets which are formed from combinations and relations
involving individual media features.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2532    Masinter         Mar 1999       Extended Facsimile Using
                                        Internet Mail

This document describes extensions to "Simple Mode of Facsimile Using
Internet Mail", and describes additional features, including
transmission of enhanced document characteristics (higher resolution,
color) and confirmation of delivery and processing.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2531    Klyne           Mar 1999        Content Feature Schema for
                                        Internet Fax

This document defines a content feature schema that is a profile of the
media feature registration mechanisms for use in performing capability
identification between extended Internet fax systems.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2530    Wing            Mar 1999        Indicating Supported Media
                                        Features Using Extensions to
                                        DSN and MDN

This memo describes a format for generating Message Disposition
Notifications and Delivery Status Notifications which contain such
information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2529    Carpenter       Mar 1999        Transmission of IPv6 over IPv4
                                        Domains without Explicit Tunnels

This memo specifies the frame format for transmission of IPv6 (IPV6)
packets and the method of forming IPv6 link-local addresses over IPv4
domains.  It also specifies the content of the Source/Target Link-layer
Address option used in the Router Solicitation, Router Advertisement,
Neighbor Solicitation, and Neighbor Advertisement and Redirect messages,
when those messages are transmitted on an IPv4 multicast network.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2528     Housley        Mar 1999        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure

This specification contains guidance on the use of the Internet Public
Key Infrastructure certificates to convey Key Exchange Algorithm (KEA)
keys. This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2527    Chokhani        Mar 1999        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Certificate
                                        Policy and Certification
                                        Practices Framework

This document presents a framework to assist the writers of certificate
policies or certification practice statements for certification
authorities and public key infrastructures.  In particular, the
framework provides a comprehensive list of topics that potentially (at
the writer's discretion) need to be covered in a certificate policy
definition or a certification practice statement. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.










DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2526    Johnson         Mar 1999        Reserved IPv6 Subnet Anycast
                                        Addresses

This document defines a set of reserved  anycast addresses within each
subnet prefix, and lists the initial allocation of these reserved subnet
anycast addresses.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2525    Paxson           Mar 1999       Known TCP Implementation
                                        Problems

This memo catalogs a number of known TCP implementation problems.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2524    Banan           Feb 1999        Neda's Efficient Mail
                                        Submission and Delivery (EMSD)
                                        Protocol Specification
                                        Version 1.3

This specification narrowly focuses on submission and delivery of short
mail messages with a clear emphasis on efficiency. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2523    Karn            Mar 1999        Photuris: Extended Schemes
                                        and Attributes

Photuris is a session-key management protocol.  Extensible Exchange-
Schemes are provided to enable future implementation changes without
affecting the basic protocol. This document defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.


2522    Karn            Mar 1999        Photuris: Session-Key
                                        Management Protocol

This document defines the basic protocol mechanisms. This document
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2521    Karn            Mar 1999        ICMP Security Failures Messages

This document specifies ICMP messages for indicating failures when using
IP Security Protocols (AH and ESP). This document defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.





DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2520    Luciani         Feb 1999        NHRP with Mobile NHCs

is document describes an extension to NHRP which would allow Mobile NHCs
to perform a registration with and attach to an NHS in their home LIS in
an authenticated manner. This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for
the Internet community.


2519    Chen            Feb 1999        A Framework for Inter-Domain
                                        Route Aggregation

This document presents a framework for inter-domain route aggregation
and shows an example router configuration which 'implements' this
framework.  This memo provides information for the Internet community


2518    Goland          Feb 1999        HTTP Extensions for
                                        Distributed Authoring -- WEBDA

This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and content-types
ancillary to HTTP/1.1 for the management of resource properties,
creation and management of resource collections, namespace manipulation,
and resource locking (collision avoidance).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2517    Moats           Feb 1999        Building Directories from DNS:
                                        Experiences from WWWSeeker

This memo discusses lessons that were learned during InterNIC Directory
and Database Services' development and operation of WWWSeeker, an
application that finds a web site given information about the name and
location of an organization.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2516    Mamakos         Feb 1999        A Method for Transmitting PPP
                                        Over Ethernet (PPPoE)

This document describes how to build PPP sessions and encapsulate PPP
packets over Ethernet. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.










DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2515    Tesink          Feb 1999        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for ATM Management

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes objects used for managing ATM-based interfaces,
devices, networks and services.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2514    Noto            Feb 1999        Definitions of Textual
                                        Conventions and OBJECT-
                                        IDENTITIES for ATM MEanagement

This memo describes Textual Conventions and OBJECT-IDENTITIES used for
managing ATM-based interfaces, devices, networks and services.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2513    McCloghrie      Feb 1999        Managed Objects for
                                        Controlling the Collection
                                        and Storage of Accounting
                                        Information for Connection-
                                        Oriented Networks

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for controlling the
collection and storage of accounting information for connection-oriented
networks such as ATM.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2512    McCloghrie      Feb 1999        Accounting Information for ATM
                                        Networks

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  This
memo defines a set of ATM-specific accounting information which can be
collected for connections on ATM networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2511    Myers           Mar 1999        Internet X.509 Certificate
                                        Request Message Format

This document describes the Certificate Request Message Format (CRMF).
[STANDARDS-TRACK]






DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2510    Adams           Mar 1999        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Certificate
                                        Management Protocols

This document describes the Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure
(PKI) Certificate Management Protocols.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2509    Engan           Feb 1999        IP Header Compression over PPP

This document describes an option for negotiating the use of header
compression on IP datagrams transmitted over the Point-to-Point
Protocol. It defines extensions to the PPP Control Protocols for IPv4
and IPv6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2508    Casner          Feb 1999        Compressing IP/UDP/RT Headers
                                        for Low-Speed Serial Links

This document describes a method for compressing the headers of
IP/UDP/RTP datagrams to reduce overhead on low-speed serial links.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2507    Degermark       Feb 1999        IP Header Compression

This document describes how to compress multiple IP headers and TCP and
UDP headers per hop over point to point links.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2506    Holtman         Mar 1999        Media Feature Tag Registration
                                        Procedure

This document defines a registration procedure which uses the Internet
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) as a central registry for the media
feature vocabulary. This document specifies an Internet Best Current
Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion and
suggestions for improvements.


2505    Lindberg        Feb 1999        Anti-Spam Recommendations for
                                        SMTP MTAs

This memo gives a number of implementation recommendations for SMTP,
MTAs (Mail Transfer Agents, e.g. sendmail,) to make them more capable of
reducing the impact of spam.  This document specifies an Internet Best
Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion
and suggestions for improvements.



DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


2504    Guttman         Feb 1999        Users' Security Handbook


The Users' Security Handbook is the companion to the Site Security
Handbook (SSH).  It is intended to provide users with the information
they need to help keep their networks and systems secure. This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2503    Moulton         Feb 1999        MIME Types for Use with the
                                        ISO ILL Protocol

This memorandum describes a set of MIME types for use with the ISO
Interlibrary Loan Protocol (ISO 10160/10161). This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2502    Pullen          Feb 1999        Limitations of Internet Protocol
                                        Suite  for Distributed Simulation
                                        the Large Multicast Environment

This memo defines services that LSMA has found to be required, and
aspects of the Internet protocols that LSMA has found to need further
development in order to meet these requirements. This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2501    Corson          Jan 1999        Mobile Ad hoc Networking (MANET):
                                        Routing Protocol Performance
                                        Issues and Evaluation
                                        Considerations

This memo first describes the characteristics of Mobile Ad hoc Networks
(MANETs), and their idiosyncrasies with respect to traditional,
hardwired packet networks.  It then discusses the effect these
differences have on the design and evaluation of network control
protocols with an emphasis on routing performance evaluation
considerations. This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2500    IETF            Jun 1999        Internet Official Protocol
                                        Standards

This memo summarizes the status of Internet protocols and
specifications.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


Security Considerations

   This memo does not affect the technical security of the Internet, but
   it does cite some security specifications.

Author's Address

   Alison De La Cruz
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone: (310) 822-1511
   EMail: delacruz@isi.edu




































DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 22]

RFC 2599                  Summary of 2500-2599                March 2000


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















DeLaCruz                     Informational                     [Page 23]

