





Network Working Group                                           A. Ramos
Request for Comments: 2399                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1999


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 2300-2399

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2300
   through RFCs 2399.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----


2399    Ramos           Jan 1999        Request for Comments Summary

This memo.


2398    Parker          Aug 1998        Some Testing Tools for TCP
                                        Implementors

This document lists only tools which can evaluate one or more TCP
implementations, or which can privde some specific results which
describe or evaluate the TCP being tested.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.



Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2397    Masinter        Aug 1998        The "data" URL scheme

A new URL scheme, "data", is defined. It allows inclusion of small data
items as "immediate" data, as if it had been included externally.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2396    Berners-Lee     Aug 1998        Uniform Resource Identifiers
                                        (URI): Generic Syntax

This document defines a grammar that is a superset of all valid URI,
such that an implementation can parse the common components of a URI
reference without knowing the scheme-specific requirements of every
possible identifier type.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2395    Friend          Dec 1998        IP Payload Compression Using LZS

This document describes a compression method based on the LZS
compression algorithm. This document defines the application of the LZS
algorithm to the IP Payload Compression Protocol.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2394    Pereira         Dec 1998        IP Payload Compression Using
                                        DEFLATE

This document describes a compression method based on the DEFLATE
compression algorithm.  This document defines the application of the
DEFLATE algorithm to the IP Payload Compression Protocol.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2393    Shacham         Dec 1998        IP Payload Compression
                                        Protocol (IPComp)

This document describes a protocol intended to provide lossless
compression for Internet Protocol datagrams in an Internet environment.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]










Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2392    Levinson        Aug 1998        Content-ID and Message-ID
                                        Uniform Resource Locators

The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) schemes, "cid:" and "mid:" allow
references to messages and the body parts of messages.  For example,
within a single multipart message, one HTML body part might include
embedded references to other parts of the same message.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2391    Srisuresh       Aug 1998        Load Sharing using IP Network
                                        Address Translation (LSNAT)

In this document, we extend the use of NATs to offer Load share feature,
where session load can be distributed across a pool of servers, instead
of directing to a single server.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2390    Bradley         Sep 1998        Inverse Address Resolution
                                        Protocol

This memo describes additions to ARP that will allow a station to
request a protocol address corresponding to a given hardware address.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2389    Hethmon         Aug 1998        Feature negotiation mechanism
                                        for the File Transfer Protocol

This document provides a mechanism by which clients of the FTP protocol
can discover which new features are supported by a particular FTP
server.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2388    Masinter        Aug 1998        Returning Values from Forms:
                                        multipart/form-data

This specification defines an Internet Media Type, multipart/form-data,
which can be used by a wide variety of applications and transported by a
wide variety of protocols as a way of returning a set of values as the
result of a user filling out a form.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]








Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2387    Levinson        Aug 1998        The MIME Multipart/Related
                                        Content-type

This document defines the Multipart/Related content-type and provides
examples of its use.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]

2386    Crawley         Aug 1998        A Framework for QoS-based
                                        Routing in the Internet

This document describes some of the QoS-based routing issues and
requirements, and proposes a framework for QoS-based routing in the
Internet.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.



2385    Heffernan       Aug 1998        Protection of BGP Sessions via
                                        the TCP MD5 Signature Option

This memo describes a TCP extension to enhance security for BGP.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2384    Gellens         Aug 1998        POP URL Scheme

This memo defines a URL scheme for referencing a POP mailbox.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2383    Suzuki          Aug 1998        ST2+ over ATM Protocol
                                        Specification - UNI 3.1 Version

This document specifies an ATM-based protocol for communication between
ST2+ agents.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2382    Crawley         Aug 1998        A Framework for Integrated
                                        Services and RSVP over ATM

This document outlines the issues and framework related to providing IP
Integrated Services with RSVP over ATM.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.







Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2381    Garrett         Aug 1998        Interoperation of
                                        Controlled-Load Service
                                        and Guaranteed Service with ATM

This document provides guidelines for mapping service classes, and
traffic management features and parameters between Internet and ATM
technologies.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2380    Berger          Aug 1998        RSVP over ATM Implementation
                                        Requirements

This memo presents specific implementation requirements for running RSVP
over ATM switched virtual circuits (SVCs).  It presents requirements
that ensure interoperability between multiple implementations and
conformance to the RSVP and Integrated Services specifications.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2379    Berger          Aug 1998        RSVP over ATM Implementation
                                        Guidelines

This memo presents specific implementation guidelines for running RSVP
over ATM switched virtual circuits (SVCs). This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2378    Hedberg         Sep 1998        The CCSO Nameserver (Ph)
                                        Architecture

The Ph Nameserver from the Computing and Communications Services Office
(CCSO), University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign has for some time now
been used by several organizations as their choice of publicly available
database for information about people as well as other things.  This
document provides a formal definition of the client-server protocol.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2377    Grimstad        Sep 1998        Naming Plan for Internet
                                        Directory-Enabled Applications

Application of the conventional X.500 approach to naming has heretofore,
in the experience of the authors, proven to be an obstacle to the wide
deployment of directory-enabled applications on the Internet.  We
propose a new directory naming plan that leverages the strengths of the
most popular and successful Internet naming schemes for naming objects



Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


in a hierarchical directory.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2376    Whitehead       Jul 1998        XML Media Types

This document proposes two new media subtypes, text/xml and
application/xml, for use in exchanging network entities which are
conforming Extensible Markup Language (XML).  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2375    Hinden          Jul 1998        IPv6 Multicast Address
                                        Assignments

This document defines the initial assignment of IPv6 multicast
addresses.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2374    Hinden          Jul 1998        An IPv6 Aggregatable Global
                                        Unicast Address Format

This document defines an IPv6 aggregatable global unicast address format
for use in the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2373    Hinden          Jul 1998        IP Version 6 Addressing
                                        Architecture

This specification defines the addressing architecture of the IP Version
6 protocol [IPV6].  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2372    Evans           Jul 1998        Transaction Internet Protocol
                                        - Requirements and
                                        Supplemental Information

This document describes the purpose (usage scenarios), and requirements
for the Transaction Internet Protocol.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.







Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2371    Lyon            Jul 1998        Transaction Internet Protocol
                                        Version 3.0

In many applications where different nodes cooperate on some work, there
is a need to guarantee that the work happens atomically. That is, each
node must reach the same conclusion as to whether the work is to be
completed, even in the face of failures.  This document proposes a
simple, easily-implemented protocol for achieving this end.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2370    Coltun          Jul 1998        The OSPF Opaque LSA Option

This memo defines enhancements to the OSPF protocol to support a new
class of link-state advertisements (LSA) called Opaque LSAs.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2369    Neufeld         Jul 1998        The Use of URLs as Meta-Syntax
                                        for Core Mail List Commands
                                        and their Transport through
                                        Message Header Fields

The mailing list command specification header fields are a set of
structured fields to be added to email messages sent by email
distribution lists.

By including these header fields, list servers can make it possible for
mail clients to provide automated tools for users to perform list
functions. This could take the form of a menu item, push button, or
other user interface element. The intent is to simplify the user
experience, providing a common interface to the often cryptic and varied
mailing list manager commands.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2368    Hoffman         Jul 1998        The mailto URL scheme

This document defines the format of Uniform Resource Locators (URL) for
designating electronic mail addresses.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]












Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2367    McDonald        Jul 1998        PF_KEY Key Management API,
                                        Version 2

A generic key management API that can be used not only for IP Security
but also for other network security services is presented in this
document.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2366    Chung           Jul 1998        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1
                                        based ATM Networks

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects for IP hosts and routers that
use a Multicast Address Resolution Server (MARS) to support IP multicast
over ATM, as described in 'Support for Multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1 based
ATM Networks'.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2365    Meyer           Jul 1998        Administratively Scoped IP
                                        Multicast

This document defines the "administratively scoped IPv4 multicast space"
to be the range 239.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255. In addition, it describes
a simple set of semantics for the implementation of Administratively
Scoped IP Multicast. Finally, it provides a mapping between the IPv6
multicast address classes [RFC1884] and IPv4 multicast address classes.
This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the
Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.


2364    Gross           Jul 1998        PPP Over AAL5

This document describes the use of ATM Adaptation Layer 5 (AAL5) for
framing PPP encapsulated packets.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2363    Gross           Jul 1998        PPP Over FUNI

This document describes the use of ATM Frame User Network Interface
(FUNI)  for framing PPP encapsulated packets.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]







Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2362    Estrin          Jun 1998        Protocol Independent
                                        Multicast-Sparse Mode (PIM-SM):
                                        Protocol Specification

This document describes a protocol for efficiently routing to multicast
groups that may span wide-area (and inter-domain) internets.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  It does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Discussion and
suggestions for improvement are requested.


2361    Fleischman      Jun 1998        WAVE and AVI Codec Registries

The purpose of this paper is to establish a mechanism by which codecs
registered within Microsoft's WAVE and AVI Registries may be referenced
within the IANA Namespace by Internet applications.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2360    Scott           Jun 1998        Guide for Internet Standards
                                        Writers

This document is a guide for Internet standard writers.  It defines
those characteristics that make standards coherent, unambiguous, and
easy to interpret.  This document specifies an Internet Best Current
Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion and
suggestions for improvements.


2359    Myers           Jun 1998        IMAP4 UIDPLUS extension

The UIDPLUS extension of the Internet Message Access Protocol [IMAP4]
provides a set of features intended to reduce the amount of time and
resources used by some client operations.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2358    Flick           Jun 1998        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the Ethernet-like
                                        Interface Types

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  This
memo obsoletes RFC 1650 "Definitions of Managed Objects for the
Ethernet-like Interface Types using SMIv2".  This memo extends that
specification by including management information useful for the
management of 100 Mb/s Ethernet interfaces.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2357    Mankin          Jun 1998        IETF Criteria for Evaluating
                                        Reliable Multicast Transport
                                        and Application Protocols

This memo describes the procedures and criteria for reviewing reliable
multicast protocols within the Transport Area (TSV) of the IETF.  Within
today's Internet, important applications exist for a reliable multicast
service.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2356    Montenegro      Jun 1998        Sun's SKIP Firewall Traversal
                                        for Mobile IP

The Mobile IP specification establishes the mechanisms that enable a
mobile host to maintain and use the same IP address as it changes its
point of attachment to the network.  The mechanisms described in this
document allow a mobile node out on a public sector of the internet to
negotiate access past a SKIP firewall, and construct a secure channel
into its home network.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2355    Kelly           Jun 1998         TN3270 Enhancements

This document describes a protocol that more fully supports 3270 devices
than do traditional tn3270 practices.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2354    Perkins         Jun 1998        Options for Repair of
                                        Streaming Media

This document summarizes a range of possible techniques for the repair
of continuous media streams subject to packet loss.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2353    Dudley          May 1998        APPN/HPR in IP Networks
                                        APPN Implementers' Workshop
                                        Closed Pages Document

This memo defines a method with which HPR nodes can use IP networks for
communication, and the enhancements to APPN required by this method.
This memo also describes an option set that allows the use of the APPN
connection network model to allow HPR nodes to use IP





Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


networks for communication without having to predefine link connections.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2352    Vaughan         May 1998        A Convention For Using Legal
                                        Names as Domain Names

The purpose of this memo is to focus discussion on the particular
problems with the exhaustion of the top level domain space in the
Internet and the possible conflicts that can occur when multiple
organisations are vying for the same name.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2351    Robert          May 1998        Mapping of Airline
                                        Reservation, Ticketing,
                                        and Messaging Traffic over IP

This memo specifies a protocol for the encapsulation of the airline
specific protocol over IP.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2250    Brownlee        Jun 1998        Expectations for Computer
                                        Security Incident Response

The purpose of this document is to express the general Internet
community's expectations of Computer Security Incident Response Teams
(CSIRTs). It is not possible to define a set of requirements that would
be appropriate for all teams, but it is possible and helpful to list and
describe the general set of topics and issues which are of concern and
interest to constituent communities.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2349    Malkin          May 1998        TFTP Timeout Interval and
                                        Transfer Size Options

The Trivial File Transfer Protocol is a simple, lock-step, file transfer
protocol which allows a client to get or put a file onto a remote host.
This document describes two TFTP options.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]






Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2348    Malkin          May 1998        TFTP Blocksize Option

The Trivial File Transfer Protocol is a simple, lock-step, file transfer
protocol which allows a client to get or put a file onto a remote host.
This document describes a TFTP option which allows the client and server
to negotiate a blocksize more applicable to the network medium.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2347    Malkin          May 1998        TFTP Option Extension

The Trivial File Transfer Protocol is a simple, lock-step, file transfer
protocol which allows a client to get or put a file onto a remote host.
This document describes a simple extension to TFTP to allow option
negotiation prior to the file transfer.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2346    Palme           May 1998        Making Postscript and PDF
                                        International

Certain text formats, for example Postscript (MIME-Type:
application/postscript; file extension .ps) and Portable Document Format
(MIME-Type: application/pdf; file extension .pdf) specify exactly the
page layout of the printed document. The commonly used paper format is
different in North America and the rest of the world.  North America
uses the 'Letter' format, while the rest of the world mostly uses the
ISO-standard 'A4' format. This means that documents formatted on one
continent may not be easily printable on another continent. This memo
gives advice on how to produce documents which are equally well
printable with the Letter and the A4 formats.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2345    Klensin         May 1998        Domain Names and Company Name
                                        Retrieval

This document proposes a company name to URL mapping service based on
the oldest and least complex of Internet directory protocols, whois, in
order to explore whether an extremely simple and widely-deployed
protocol can succeed where more complex and powerful options have failed
or been excessively delayed.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.  Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested.







Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2344    Montenegro      May 1998        Reverse Tunneling for Mobile IP

This document proposes backwards-compatible extensions to Mobile IP in
order to support topologically correct reverse tunnels.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2343    Civanlar        May 1998        RTP Payload Format for Bundled
                                        MPEG

This document describes a payload type for bundled, MPEG-2 encoded video
and audio data that may be used with RTP, version 2.  This memo defines
an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Discussion and suggestions
for improvement are requested.


2342    Gahrns          May 1998        IMAP4 Namespace

This document defines a NAMESPACE command that allows a client to
discover the prefixes of namespaces used by a server for personal
mailboxes, other users' mailboxes, and shared mailboxes.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2341    Valencia        May 1998        Cisco Layer Two Forwarding
                                        (Protocol) "L2F"

This document describes the Layer Two Forwarding protocol (L2F) which
permits the tunneling of the link layer (i.e., HDLC, async HDLC, or SLIP
frames) of higher level protocols.  This memo describes a historic
protocol for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2340    Jamoussi        May 1998                Nortel's Virtual Network
                                        Switching (VNS) Overview

This document provides an overview of Virtual Network Switching (VNS).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.










Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2339    ISOC            May 1998        An Agreement Between the
                                        Internet Society, the IETF,
                                        and Sun Microsystems, Inc. in
                                        the matter of NFS V.4 Protocols

This Request for Comments records an agreement between Sun Microsystems,
Inc. and the Internet Society to permit the flow of Sun's Network File
System specifications into the Internet Standards process conducted by
the Internet Engineering Task Force.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2338    Knight          Apr 1998        Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol

This memo defines the Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP).  VRRP
specifies an election protocol that dynamically assigns responsibility
for a virtual router to one of the VRRP routers on a LAN.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2337    Farinacci       Apr 1998        Intra-LIS IP multicast among
                                        routers over ATM using Sparse
                                        Mode PIM

This document describes how intra-LIS IP multicast can be efficiently
supported among routers over ATM without using the Multicast Address
Resolution Server (MARS).  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.  Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested.


2336    Luciani         Jul 1998        Classical IP and ARP over ATM
                                        to NHRP Transition

This document describes methods and procedures for the graceful
transition from an ATMARP LIS to an NHRP LIS network model over ATM.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2335    Luciani         Apr 1998        A Distributed NHRP Service
                                        Using SCSP

This document describes a method for distributing an NHRP service within
a LIS.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2334    Luciani         Apr 1998        Server Cache Synchronization
                                        Protocol (SCSP)

This document describes the Server Cache Synchronization Protocol (SCSP)
and is written in terms of SCSP's use within Non Broadcast Multiple
Access (NBMA) networks; although, a somewhat straight forward usage is
applicable to BMA networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2333    Cansever        Apr 1998        NHRP Protocol Applicability
                                        Statement

As required by the Routing Protocol Criteria [RFC 1264], this memo
discusses the applicability of the Next Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP)
in routing of IP datagrams over Non-Broadcast Multiple Access (NBMA)
networks, such as ATM, SMDS and X.25.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2332    Luciani         Apr 1998        NBMA Next Hop Resolution
                                        Protocol (NHRP)

This document describes the NBMA Next Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP).
NHRP can be used by a source station (host or router) connected to a
Non-Broadcast, Multi-Access (NBMA) subnetwork to determine the
internetworking layer address and NBMA subnetwork addresses of the "NBMA
next hop" towards a destination station.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2331    Maher           Apr 1998        ATM Signalling Support for IP
                                        over ATM - UNI Signalling 4.0
                                        Update

This memo describes how to efficiently use the ATM call control
signalling procedures defined in UNI Signalling 4.0 to support IP over
ATM environments as described in RFC 2225 and in RFC 2332.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2330    Paxson          May 1998        Framework for IP Performance
                                        Metrics

The purpose of this memo is to define a general framework for particular
metrics to be developed by the IETF's IP Performance Metrics effort.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.






Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2329    Moy             Apr 1998        OSPF Standardization Report

This memo documents how the requirements for advancing a routing
protocol to Full Standard have been met for OSPFv2.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2328    Moy             Apr 1998        OSPF Version 2

This memo documents version 2 of the OSPF protocol.  OSPF is a link-
state routing protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2327    Handley         Apr 1998        SDP: Session Description Protocol

This document defines the Session Description Protocol, SDP.  SDP is
intended for describing multimedia sessions for the purposes of session
announcement, session invitation, and other forms of multimedia session
initiation.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2326    Schulzrinne     Apr 1998        Real Time Streaming Protocol
                                        (RTSP)

The Real Time Streaming Protocol, or RTSP, is an application-level
protocol for control over the delivery of data with real-time
properties. RTSP provides an extensible framework to enable controlled,
on-demand delivery of real-time data, such as audio and video.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2325    Slavitch        1 Apr 1998      Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Drip-Type Heated Beverage
                                        Hardware Devices using SMIv2

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of coffee-brewing and
maintenance devices.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.










Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2324    Masinter        1 Apr 1998      Hyper Text Coffee Pot Control
                                        Protocol (HTCPCP/1.0)

This document describes HTCPCP, a protocol for controlling, monitoring,
and diagnosing coffee pots.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2323    Ramos           1 Apr 1998      IETF Identification and
                                        Security Guidelines

This RFC is meant to represent a guideline by which the IETF conferences
may run more effeciently with regards to identification and security
protocols, with specific attention paid to a particular sub-group within
the IETF: "facial hairius extremis".  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2322    van den Hout    1 Apr 1998      Management of IP numbers by
                                        peg-dhcp

This RFC describes a protocol to dynamically hand out ip-numbers on
field networks and small events that don't necessarily have a clear
organisational body.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2321    Bressen         1 Apr 1998      RITA -- The Reliable
                                        Internetwork Troubleshooting
                                        Agent

A Description of the usage of Nondeterministic Troubleshooting and
Diagnostic Methodologies as applied to today's complex nondeterministic
networks and environments.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2320    Greene          Apr 1998        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Classical IP and ARP Over
                                        ATM Using SMIv2

The purpose of this memo is to define the Management Information Base
(MIB) for supporting Classical IP and ARP over ATM as specified in
Classical IP and ARP over ATM.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2319    KOI8-U WG       Apr 1998        Ukrainian Character Set KOI8-U

This document provides information about character encoding KOI8-U (KOI8
Ukrainian) wich is a de-facto standard in Ukrainian Internet community.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2318    Lie             Mar 1998        The text/css Media Type

This memo provides information about the text/css Media Type.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2317    Eidnes          Mar 1998        Classless IN-ADDR.ARPA delegation

This document describes a way to do IN-ADDR.ARPA delegation on non-octet
boundaries for address spaces covering fewer than 256 addresses.  This
document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet
Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2316    Bellovin        Apr 1998        Report of the IAB Security
                                        Architecture Workshop

On 3-5 March 1997, the IAB held a security architecture workshop at Bell
Labs in Murray Hill, NJ.  We identified the core security components of
the architecture, and specified several documents that need to be
written.  Most importantly, we agreed that security was not optional,
and that it needed to be designed in from the beginning.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2315    Kaliski         Mar 1998        PKCS #7: Cryptographic Message
                                        Syntax Version 1.5

This document describes a general syntax for data that may have
cryptography applied to it, such as digital signatures and digital
envelopes.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.









Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2314    Kaliski         Mar 1998        PKCS #10: Certification
                                        Request Syntax Version 1.5

This document describes a syntax for certification requests.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2313    Kaliski         Mar 1998        PKCS #1: RSA Encryption
                                        Version 1.5

This document describes a method for encrypting data using the RSA
public-key cryptosystem.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2312    Dusse           Mar 1998        S/MIME Version 2 Certificate
                                        Handling

This memo describes the mechanisms S/MIME uses to create and validate
keys using certificates.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2311    Dusse           Mar 1998        S/MIME Version 2 Message
                                        Specification

This document describes a protocol for adding cryptographic signature
and encryption services to MIME data.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


2310    Holtman         Apr 1998        The Safe Response Header Field

This document defines a HTTP response header field called Safe, which
can be used to indicate that repeating a HTTP request is safe.  This
memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  It
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Discussion and
suggestions for improvement are requested.









Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2309    Braden          Apr 1998        Recommendations on Queue
                                        Management and Congestion Avoidance
                                        in the Internet

This memo presents two recommendations to the Internet community
concerning measures to improve and preserve Internet performance.  It
presents a strong recommendation for testing, standardization, and
widespread deployment of active queue management in routers, to improve
the performance of today's Internet.  It also urges a concerted effort
of research, measurement, and ultimate deployment of router mechanisms
to protect the Internet from flows that are not sufficiently responsive
to congestion notification.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.


2308    Andrews         Mar 1998        Negative Caching of DNS
                                        Queries (DNS NCACHE)

RFC1034 provided a description of how to cache negative responses.  It
however had a fundamental flaw in that it did not allow a name server to
hand out those cached responses to other resolvers, thereby greatly
reducing the effect of the caching.  This document addresses issues
raise in the light of experience and replaces RFC1034 Section 4.3.4.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2307    Howard          Mar 1998        An Approach for Using LDAP as
                                        a Network Information Service

This document describes an experimental mechanism for mapping entities
related to TCP/IP and the UNIX system into X.500 entries so that they
may be resolved with the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
[RFC2251].  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.
Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested.


2306    Parsons         Mar 1998        Tag Image File Format (TIFF) -
                                        F Profile for Facsimile

This document describes in detail the definition of TIFF-F that is used
to store facsimile images.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of any
kind.






Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


2305    Toyoda          Mar 1998        A Simple Mode of Facsimile
                                        Using Internet Mail

This specification provides for "simple mode" carriage of facsimile data
over the Internet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2304    Allocchio       Mar 1998        Minimal FAX address format in
                                        Internet Mail

This memo describes the MINIMAL addressing method and standard
extensions to encode FAX addresses in e-mail addresses.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2303    Allocchio       Mar 1998        Minimal PSTN address format in
                                        Internet Mail

This memo describes the MINIMAL addressing method to encode PSTN
addresses into e-mail addresses and the standard extension mechanism to
allow definition of further standard elements.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2302    Parsons         Mar 1998        Tag Image File Format (TIFF) -
                                        image/tiff MIME Sub-type
                                        Registration

This document describes the registration of the MIME sub-type
image/tiff.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2301    McIntyre        Mar 1998        File Format for Internet Fax

This document describes the TIFF (Tag Image File Format) representation
of image data specified by the ITU-T Recommendations for black-and-white
and color facsimile.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2300    IAB             May 1998        INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL
                                        STANDARDS

A discussion of the standardization process and the RFC document series
is presented first, followed by an explanation of the terms.  Sections
6.2 - 6.10 contain the lists of protocols in each stage of
standardization.  Finally are pointers to references and contacts for
further information.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


Security Considerations

   There are no security issues in this Informational RFC.

Author's Address

   Alegre Ramos
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511
   EMail: ramos@isi.edu





































Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 22]

RFC 2399                  Summary of 2300-2399              January 1999


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
























Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 23]

