





Network Working Group                                           A. Ramos
Request for Comments: 2199                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                     January 1998


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 2100-2199

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2100
   through RFCs 2199.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date      Title
---     ------          ----      -----


2199    Ramos           Jan 98  Request for Comments Summary

This memo.


2198    Perkins         Sep 97  RTP Payload for Redundant Audio Data

This document describes a payload format for use with the real-time
transport protocol (RTP), version 2, for encoding redundant audio data.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]






Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2197    Freed           Sep 97  SMTP Service Extension
                                for Command Pipelining

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby a server can
indicate the extent of its ability to accept multiple commands in a
single TCP send operation. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2196    Fraser          Sep 97  Site Security Handbook

This handbook is a guide to developing computer security policies and
procedures for sites that have systems on the Internet.  The purpose of
this handbook is to provide practical guidance to administrators trying
to secure their information and services.  The subjects covered include
policy content and formation, a broad range of technical system and
network security topics, and security incident response.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2195     Klensin        Sep 97  IMAP/POP AUTHorize Extension for Simple
                                Challenge/Response

This specification provides a simple challenge-response authentication
protocol that is suitable for use with IMAP4. [STANDARDS TRACK]


2194    Aboba           Sep 97  Review of Roaming Implementations

This document reviews the design and functionality of existing roaming
implementations.  Examples of cases where roaming capability might be
required include ISP "confederations" and ISP-provided corporate network
access support.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2193    Gahrns          Sep 97  IMAP4 Mailbox Referrals

Mailbox referrals allow clients to seamlessly access mailboxes that are
distributed across several IMAP4 servers. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2192    Newman          Sep 97  IMAP URL Scheme

This document defines a URL scheme for referencing objects on an IMAP
server. [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2191    Armitage        Sep 97  VENUS - Very Extensive Non-Unicast Service

This document focuses exclusively on the problems associated with
extending the MARS model to cover multiple clusters or clusters spanning
more than one subnet. It describes a hypothetical solution, dubbed "Very
Extensive NonUnicast Service" (VENUS), and shows how complex such a
service would be.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2190    Zhu             Sep 97  RTP Payload Format for H.263 Video Streams

This document specifies the payload format for encapsulating an H.263
bitstream in the Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP). [STANDARDS TRACK]


2189    Ballardie       Sep 97  Core Based Trees (CBT version 2)
                                Multicast Routing

This document describes the Core Based Tree (CBT version 2) network
layer multicast routing protocol. CBT builds a shared multicast
distribution tree per group, and is suited to inter- and intra-domain
multicast routing.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.


2188    Banan           Sep 97  AT&T/Neda's Efficient Short Remote
                                Operations (ESRO) Protocol
                                Specification Version 1.2

This document specifies the service model, the notation and protocol for
Efficient Short Remote Operations (ESRO).  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2187    Wessels         Sep 97  Application of Internet Cache Protocol
                                (ICP), version 2

This document describes the application of ICPv2 (Internet Cache
Protocol version 2, RFC2186) to Web caching.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.








Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2186    Wessels         Sep 97  Internet Cache Protocol (ICP), version 2

This document describes version 2 of the Internet Cache Protocol (ICPv2)
as currently implemented in two World-Wide Web proxy cache packages.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2185    Callon          Sep 97  Routing Aspects Of IPv6 Transition

This document gives an overview of the routing aspects of the IPv6
transition.  It is based on the protocols defined in the document
"Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts and Routers."  Readers should be
familiar with the transition mechanisms before reading this document.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2184    Freed           Aug 97  MIME Parameter Value and Encoded Word
                                Extensions:Character Sets, Languages,
                                and Continuations

This memo defines extensions to the RFC 2045 media type and RFC 2183
disposition parameter value mechanisms. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2183    Troost          Aug 97  Communicating Presentation Information
                                in Internet Messages: The Content-
                                Disposition Header Field

This memo provides a mechanism whereby messages conforming to the MIME
specifications [RFC 2045, RFC 2046, RFC 2047, RFC 2048, RFC 2049] can
convey presentational information.  It specifies the "Content-
Disposition" header field, which is optional and valid for any MIME
entity ("message" or "body part"). [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2182    Elz             Jul 97  Selection and Operation of Secondary
                                DNS Servers

This document discusses the selection of secondary servers for DNS
zones.The number of servers appropriate for a zone is also discussed,
and some general secondary server maintenance issues considered.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.






Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2181    Elz             Jul 97  Clarifications to the DNS Specification

This document considers some areas that have been identified as problems
with the specification of the Domain Name System, and proposes remedies
for the defects identified. [STANDARDS TRACK]


2180    Gahrns          Jul 97  IMAP4 Multi-Accessed Mailbox Practice

The behavior described in this document reflects the practice of some
existing servers or behavior that the consensus of the IMAP mailing list
has deemed to be reasonable.  The behavior described within this
document is believed to be [RFC-2060] compliant. However, this document
is not meant to define IMAP4 compliance, nor is it an exhaustive list of
valid IMAP4 behavior.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2179    Gwinn           Jul 97  Network Security For Trade Shows

This document is designed to assist vendors and other participants in
trade shows, such as Networld+Interop, in designing effective protection
against network and system attacks by unauthorized individuals.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2178    Moy             Jul 97  OSPF Version 2


This document considers some areas that have been identified as problems
with the specification of the Domain Name System, and proposes remedies
for the defects identified. [STANDARDS TRACK]


2177    Leiba           Jun 97  IMAP4 IDLE command

This document specifies the syntax of an IDLE command, which will allow
a client to tell the server that it's ready to accept such real-time
updates. [STANDARDS-TRACK]











Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2176    Murakami        Jun 97  IPv4 over MAPOS Version 1

This memo documents a mechanism for supporting Version 4 of the Internet
Protocol (IPv4) on Version 1 of the Multiple Access Protocol over
SONET/SDH.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2175     Murakami       Jun 97  SONET/SDH with 16 Bit Addressing

This memo documents MAPOS 16, a multiple access protocol for
transmission of network-protocol datagrams, encapsulated in HDLC frames
with 16 bit addressing, over SONET/SDH.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2174    Murakami       Jun 97   A MAPOS version 1 Extension -
                                Switch-Switch Protocol

This memo documents a MAPOS (Multiple Access Protocol over SONET/SDH)
version 1 extension, Switch Switch Protocol which provides dynamic
routing for unicast, broadcast, and multicast.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2173    Murakami       Jun 97   A MAPOS version 1 Extension - Node
                                Switch Protocol

This document describes a MAPOS extension, Node Switch Protocol, for
automatic node address assignment.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


2172     Maruyama       Jun 97  MAPOS Version 1 Assigned Numbers

This memo documents the parameters used in the Multiple Access Protocol
over SONET/SDH Version 1.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.









Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2171    Murakami       Jun 97   MAPOS - Multiple Access Protocol over
                                SONET/SDH  Version 1

This memo documents a multiple access protocol for transmission of
network-protocol datagrams, encapsulated in High-Level Data Link Control
(HDLC) frames, over SONET/SDH.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


2170    Almesberger     Jul 97  Application REQuested IP over ATM
                                (AREQUIPA)

This document specifies a method for allowing ATM-attached hosts that
have direct ATM connectivity to set up end-to-end IP over ATM
connections within the reachable ATM cloud, on request from
applications, and for the exclusive use by the requesting applications.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2169    Daniel          Jun 97  A Trivial Convention for using HTTP in
                                URN Resolution

This document specifies the "THTTP" resolution protocol - a trivial
convention for encoding resolution service requests and responses as
HTTP 1.0 or 1.1 requests and responses.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Discussion and suggestions
for improvement are requested.


2168    Daniel          Jun 97  Resolution of Uniform Resource
                                Identifiers using the Domain Name System

The requirements document for URN resolution systems defines the concept
of a "resolver discovery service". This document describes the first,
experimental, RDS. It is implemented by a new DNS Resource Record, NAPTR
(Naming Authority PoinTeR), that provides rules for mapping parts of
URIs to domain names.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for
the Internet community.










Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2167    Williamson      Jun 97  Referral Whois (RWhois) Protocol V1.5

This memo describes Version 1.5 of the client/server interaction of
RWhois.  RWhois provides a distributed system for the discovery,
retrieval, and maintenance of directory information.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2166    Bryant          Jun 97  APPN Implementer's Workshop
                                Closed Pages Document

This document specifies a set of extensions to RFC 1795 designed to
improve the scalability of DLSw clarifications to RFC 1795 in the light
of the implementation experience to-date.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2165    Veizades        Jun 97  Service Location Protocol

The Service Location Protocol provides a scalable framework for the
discovery and selection of network services.  Using this protocol,
computers using the Internet no longer need so much static configuration
of network services for network based applications.  This is especially
important as computers become more portable, and users less tolerant or
able to fulfill the demands of network system administration.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2164    Kille           Jan 98  Use of an X.500/LDAP directory to
                                support MIXER address mapping

This specification defines how to represent and maintain these mappings
(MIXER Conformant Global Address Mappings of MCGAMs) in an X.500 or LDAP
directory.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2163    Allocchio       Jan 98  Using the Internet DNS to Distribute
                                MIXER Conformant Global Address
                                Mapping (MCGAM)

This memo is the complete technical specification to store in the
Internet Domain Name System (DNS) the mapping information (MCGAM) needed
by MIXER conformant e-mail gateways and other tools to map RFC822 domain
names into X.400 O/R names and vice versa.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2162    Allocchio       Jan 98  MaXIM-11 - Mapping between X.400 /
                                Internet mail and Mail-11 mail

The standard referred shortly into this document as "X.400" relates to
the ISO/IEC 10021 - CCITT 1984, 1988 and 1992 X.400 Series
Recommendations covering the Message Oriented Text Interchange Service
(MOTIS). This document covers the Inter Personal Messaging System (IPMS)
only.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


2161    Alvestrand      Jan 98  A MIME Body Part for ODA

This document contains the definitions, originally contained in RFC 1495
and RFC 1341, on how to carry ODA in MIME, and how to translate it to
its X.400 representation.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.


2160    Alvestrand      Jan 98  Carrying PostScript in X.400 and MIME

This document describes methods for carrying PostScript information in
the two standard mail systems MIME and X.400, and the conversion between
them.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2159    Alvestrand      Jan 98  A MIME Body Part for FAX

This document contains the definitions, originally contained in RFC
1494, on how to carry CCITT G3Fax in MIME, and how to translate it to
its X.400 representation.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2158    Alvestrand      Jan 98  X.400 Image Body Parts

This document contains the body parts defined in RFC 1495 for carrying
image formats that were originally defined in MIME through an X.400
system.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2157    Alvestrand      Jan 98  Mapping between X.400 and RFC-822/MIME
                                Message Bodies

This document defines how to map body parts of X.400 messages into MIME
entities and vice versa, including the handling of multipart messages
and forwarded messages.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]





Ramos                        Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2156    Kille           Jan 98  MIXER (Mime Internet X.400 Enhanced
                                Relay): Mapping between X.400 and
                                RFC 822/MIME

This document relates primarily to the ITU-T 1988 and 1992 X.400 Series
Recommendations / ISO IEC 10021 International Standard.  This ISO/ITU-T
standard is referred to in this document as "X.400", which is a
convenient shorthand.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2155    Clouston        Jun 97  Definitions of Managed Objects
                                for APPN using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network
devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Networking) capabilities.  This
memo identifies managed objects for the APPN protocol.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2154    Murphy          Jun 97  OSPF with Digital Signatures

This memo describes the extensions to OSPF required to add digital
signature authentication to Link State data, and to provide a
certification mechanism for router data.  Added LSA processing and key
management is detailed.  A method for migration from, or co-existence
with, standard OSPF V2 is described.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.


2153    Simpson         May 97   PPP Vendor Extensions

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) provides a standard method for
transporting multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links.  PPP
defines an extensible Link Control Protocol (LCP) for establishing,
configuring, and testing the data-link connection; and a family of
Network Control Protocols (NCPs) for establishing and configuring
different network-layer protocols.  This document provides information
for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.










Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2152    Goldsmith       May 97  A Mail-Safe Transformation Format
                                of Unicode

This document describes a transformation format of Unicode that contains
only 7-bit ASCII octets and is intended to be readable by humans in the
limiting case that the document consists of characters from the US-ASCII
repertoire. It also specifies how this transformation format is used in
the context of MIME and RFC 1641, "Using Unicode with MIME".  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2151    Kessler         Jun 97  A Primer On Internet and TCP/IP Tools
                                and Utilities

This memo is an introductory guide to many of the most commonly-
available TCP/IP and Internet tools and utilities. It also describes
discussion lists accessible from the Internet, ways to obtain Internet
and TCP/IP documents, and some resources that help users weave their way
through the Internet.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2150    Max             Oct 97  Humanities and Arts: Sharing Center
                                Stage on the Internet

The purpose of this document is to provide members of the Arts and
Humanities communities with an introduction to the Internet as a
valuable tool, resource, and medium for the creation, presentation, and
preservation of Arts and Humanities-based content.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2149   Talpade          May 97  Multicast Server Architectures for
                                MARS-based ATM multicasting

This memo provides details on the design and implementation of an MCS,
building on the core mechanisms defined in RFC 2022.  It also provides a
mechanism for using multiple MCSs per group for providing fault
tolerance.  This approach can be used with RFC 2022 based MARS server
and clients, without needing any change in their functionality.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.







Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2148    Alvestrand      Sep 97  Deployment of the Internet White Pages
                                Service

This document describes the way in which the Internet White Pages
Service is best exploited using today's experience, today's protocols,
today's products and today's procedures.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2147    Borman          May 97  TCP and UDP over IPv6 Jumbograms

IPv6 supports datagrams larger than 65535 bytes long, often referred to
as jumbograms, through use of the Jumbo Payload hop-by-hop option.  The
UDP protocol has a 16-bit length field that keeps it from being able to
make use of jumbograms, and though TCP does not have a length field,
both the MSS option and the Urgent field are constrained by 16-bits.
This document describes some simple changes that can be made to allow
TCP and UDP to make use of IPv6 jumbograms.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2146     FNC            May 97  U.S. Government Internet Domain Names


This memo provides an update and clarification to RFC 1816.  This
document describes the registration policies for the top-level domain
".GOV".  The purpose of the domain is to provide naming conventions that
identify US Federal government agencies in order to facilitate access to
their electronic resources.  This memo provides guidance for
registrations by Federal Agencies that avoids name duplication and
facilitates responsiveness to the public.  It restricts registrations to
coincide with the approved structure of the US government and the advice
of its Chief Information Officers.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


2145    Mogul           May 97  Use and Interpretation of
                                HTTP Version Numbers

HTTP request and response messages include an HTTP protocol version
number.  Some confusion exists concerning the proper use and
interpretation of HTTP version numbers, and concerning interoperability
of HTTP implementations of different protocol versions.  This document
is an attempt to clarify the situation. This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.




Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2144    Adams           May 97  The CAST-128 Encryption Algorithm

There is a need in the Internet community for an unencumbered encryption
algorithm with a range of key sizes that can provide security for a
variety of cryptographic applications and protocols.  This document
describes an existing algorithm that can be used to satisfy this
requirement.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2143    Elliston        May 97  Encapsulating IP with the Small
                                Computer System Interface

This document outlines a protocol for connecting hosts running the
TCP/IP protocol suite over a Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) bus.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2142    Crocker         May 97  MAILBOX NAMES FOR
                                COMMON SERVICES, ROLES AND FUNCTIONS

This specification enumerates and describes Internet mail addresses
(mailbox name @ host reference) to be used when contacting personnel at
an organization. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2141    Moats           May 97  URN Syntax

Uniform Resource Names (URNs) are intended to serve as persistent,
location-independent, resource identifiers. This document sets forward
the canonical syntax for URNs. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2140    Touch           Apr 97  TCP Control Block Interdependence

This memo makes the case for interdependent TCP control blocks, where
part of the TCP state is shared among similar concurrent connections, or
across similar connection instances. TCP state includes a combination of
parameters, such as connection state, current round-trip time estimates,
congestion control information, and process information.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.








Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2139    Rigney          Apr 97  RADIUS Accounting

This document describes a protocol for carrying accounting information
between a Network Access Server and a shared Accounting Server.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2138    Rigney          Apr 97  Remote Authentication Dial In User
                                Service (RADIUS)

This document describes a protocol for carrying authentication,
authorization, and configuration information between a Network Access
Server which desires to authenticate its links and a shared
Authentication Server. [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2137    Eastlake 3rd     Apr 97 Secure Domain Name System Dynamic
                                Update

This memo describes how to use DNSSEC digital signatures covering
requests and data to secure updates and restrict updates to those
authorized to perform them as indicated by the updater's possession of
cryptographic keys.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2136    Vixie           Apr 97  Dynamic Updates in the Domain Name
                                System (DNS UPDATE)

Using this specification of the UPDATE opcode, it is possible to add or
delete RRs or RRsets from a specified zone.  Prerequisites are specified
separately from update operations, and can specify a dependency upon
either the previous existence or nonexistence of an RRset, or the
existence of a single RR.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2135    ISOC BOT        Apr 97  Internet Society By-Laws


These are the by-laws of the Internet Society, as amended, as of June
1996.  They are published for the information of the IETF community at
the request of the poisson working group.  Please refer to the ISOC web
page (www.isoc.org) for the current version of the by-laws.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.






Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2134    ISOC BOT         Apr 97 ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                OF INTERNET SOCIETY

These are the articles of incorporation of the Internet Society.  They
are published for the information of the IETF community at the request
of the poisson working group.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


2133    Gilligan        Apr 97  Basic Socket Interface Extensions
                                for IPv6

This memo defines a set of extensions to the socket interface to support
the larger address size and new features of IPv6.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2132    Alexander       Mar 97  DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor
                                Extensions

This document specifies the current set of DHCP options.  Future options
will be specified in separate RFCs.  The current list of valid options
is also available in ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/iana/assignments.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2131    Droms           Mar 97  Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides a framework for
passing configuration information to hosts on a TCPIP network.  DHCP is
based on the Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP), adding the capability of
automatic allocation of reusable network addresses and additional
configuration options.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2130   Weider           Apr 97  The Report of the IAB Character Set
                                Workshop held 29 February - 1 March,
                                1996

This report details the conclusions of an IAB-sponsored invitational
workshop held 29 February  - 1 March, 1996, to discuss the use of
character sets on the Internet.  It motivates the need to have character
set handling in Internet protocols which transmit text, provides a
conceptual framework for specifying character sets, recommends the use
of MIME tagging for transmitted text, recommends a default character set
*without* stating that there is no need for other character sets, and



Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


makes a series of recommendations to the IAB, IANA, and the IESG for
furthering the integration of the character set framework into text
transmission protocols.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2129    Nagami          Apr 97  Toshiba's Flow Attribute Notification
                                Protocol (FANP) Specification

This memo discusses Flow Attribute Notification Protocol (FANP), which
is a protocol between neighbor nodes for the management of cut-through
packet forwarding functionalities.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


2128    Roeck           Mar 97  Dial Control Management Information
                                Base using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing demand access
circuits, including ISDN.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2127     Roeck           Mar 97 ISDN Management Information Base using
                                SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines a minimal set of managed objects for SNMP-based
management of ISDN terminal interfaces.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2126    Pouffary        Mar 97  ISO Transport Service on top of TCP
                                (ITOT)

This document is a revision to STD35, RFC1006.  This document describes
the mechanism to allow ISO Transport Services to run over TCP over IPv4
or IPv6. It also defines a number of new features, which are not
provided in RFC1006.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]










Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2125    Richards        Mar 97  The PPP Bandwidth Allocation Protocol
                                (BAP), The PPP Bandwidth Allocation
                                Control Protocol (BACP)

This document proposes a method to manage the dynamic bandwidth
allocation of implementations supporting the PPP multilink protocol.
This is done by defining the Bandwidth Allocation Protocol (BAP), as
well as its associated control protocol, the Bandwidth Allocation
Control Protocol (BACP).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2124    Amsden          Mar 97  Cabletron's Light-weight Flow
                                Admission Protocol Specification

This document specifies the protocol between the switch Connection
Control Entity (CCE) and the external FAS.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2123    Brownlee        Mar 97  Traffic Flow Measurement:  Experiences
                                with NeTraMet

This memo records experiences in implementing and using the Traffic Flow
Measurement Architecture and Meter MIB. It discusses the implementation
of NeTraMet (a traffic meter) and NeMaC (a combined manager and meter
reader), considers the writing of meter rule sets and gives some
guidance on setting up a traffic flow measurement system using NeTraMet.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2122    Mavrakis        Mar 97  VEMMI URL Specification

A new URL scheme, "vemmi" is defined.  VEMMI is a new international
standard for on-line multimedia services, that is both an ITU-T
(International Telecommunications Union, ex.  CCITT) International
Standard (T.107) and an European Standard (ETSI European
Telecommunications Standard Institute) standard (ETS 300 382, obsoleted
by ETS 300 709).  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2121   Armitage         Mar 97  Issues affecting MARS Cluster Size

This document provides a qualitative look at the issues constraining a
MARS Cluster's size, including the impact of VC limits in switches and
NICs, geographical distribution of cluster members, and the use of VC




Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


Mesh or MCS modes to support multicast groups.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2120    Chadwick        Mar 97  Managing the X.500 Root Naming Context

This document describes the use of 1993 ISO X.500 Standard protocols for
managing the root context. Whilst the ASN.1 is compatible with that of
the X.500 Standard, the actual settings of the parameters are
supplementary to that of the X.500 Standard.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2119    Bradner         Mar 97  Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
                                Requirement Levels

In many standards track documents several words are used to signify the
requirements in the specification.  These words are often capitalized.
This document defines these words as they should be interpreted in IETF
documents.  This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices
for the Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.


2118    Pall            Mar 97  Microsoft Point-To-Point Compression
                                (MPPC) Protocol

This document describes the use of the Microsoft Point to Point
Compression protocol (also referred to as MPPC in this document) for
compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


2117    Estrin          Jun 97  Protocol Independent Multicast-Sparse
                                Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol Specification

This document describes a protocol for efficiently routing to multicast
groups that may span wide-area (and inter-domain) internets.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.










Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2116    Apple           Apr 97  X.500 Implementations Catalog-96

This document is a revision to [RFC 1632]: A Revised Catalog of
Available X.500 Implementations and is based on the results of data
collection via a WWW home page that enabled implementors to submit new
or updated descriptions of currently available implementations of X.500,
including commercial products and openly available offerings. [RFC 1632]
is a revision of [RFC 1292].  This document contains detailed
description of 31 X.500 implementations - DSAs, DUAs, and DUA
interfaces.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2115    Brown           Sep 97  Management Information Base for Frame
                                Relay DTEs Using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP- based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing Frame Relay interfaces on
DTEs.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2114    Chiang          Feb 97  Data Link Switching Client Access
                                Protocol

This memo describes the Data Link Switching Client Access Protocol that
is used between workstations and routers to transport SNA/ NetBIOS
traffic over TCP sessions.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


2113    Katz            Feb 97  IP Router Alert Option

This memo describes a new IP Option type that alerts transit routers to
more closely examine the contents of an IP packet.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2112    Levinson        Mar 97  The MIME Multipart/Related
                                Content-type

The Multipart/Related content-type provides a common mechanism for
representing objects that are aggregates of related MIME body parts.
This document defines the Multipart/Related content-type and provides
examples of its use.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]






Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2111    Levinson        Mar 97  Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform
                                Resource Locators

The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) schemes, "cid:" and "mid:" allow
references to messages and the body parts of messages.  For example,
within a single multipart message, one HTML body part might include
embedded references to other parts of the same message.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


2110    Palme           Mar 97  MIME E-mail Encapsulation of Aggregate
                                Documents, such as HTML (MHTML)

This document describes a set of guidelines that will allow conforming
mail user agents to be able to send, deliver and display these objects,
such as HTML objects, that can contain links represented by URIs.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


2109    Kristol         Feb 97  HTTP State Management Mechanism

This document specifies a way to create a stateful session with HTTP
requests and responses.  It describes two new headers, Cookie and Set-
Cookie, which carry state information between participating origin
servers and user agents.  The method described here differs from
Netscape's Cookie proposal, but it can interoperate with HTTP/1.0 user
agents that use Netscape's method.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2108    de Graaf        Feb 97  Definitions of Managed Objects
                                for IEEE 802.3 Repeater Device
                                using SMIv2

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing IEEE 802.3 10 and 100
Mb/second baseband repeaters based on IEEE Std 802.3 Section 30, "10 &
100 Mb/s Management," October 26, 1995.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


2107    Hamzeh          Feb 97  Ascend Tunnel Management Protocol - ATMP

This document specifies a generic tunnel management protocol that allows
remote dial-in users to access their home network as if they were
directly attached to the home network.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.




Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2106    Chiang          Feb 97  Data Link Switching Remote Access
                                Protocol


This memo describes the Data Link Switching Remote Access Protocol that
is used between workstations and routers to transport SNA/ NetBIOS
traffic over TCP sessions.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


2105    Rekhter         Feb 97  Cisco Systems' Tag Switching
                                Architecture Overview

This document provides an overview of a novel approach to network layer
packet forwarding, called tag switching. The two main components of  the
tag switching architecture - forwarding and control - are described.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2104    Krawcyzk        Feb 97  HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
                                Authentication

This document describes HMAC, a mechanism for message authentication
using cryptographic hash functions. HMAC can be used with any iterative
cryptographic hash function, e.g., MD5, SHA-1, in combination with a
secret shared key.  The cryptographic strength of HMAC depends on the
properties of the underlying hash function.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind


2103    Ramanathan      Feb 97  Mobility Support for Nimrod :
                                Challenges and Solution Approaches

We discuss the issue of mobility in Nimrod.  While a mobility solution
is not part of the Nimrod architecture, Nimrod does require that the
solution have certain characteristics.  We identify the requirements
that Nimrod has of any solution for mobility support.  We also classify
and compare existing approaches for supporting mobility within an
internetwork and discuss their advantages and disadvantages.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.







Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


2102    Ramanathan      Feb 97  Multicast Support for Nimrod :
                                Challenges and Solution Approaches

Nimrod does not specify a particular solution for multicasting.  Rather,
Nimrod may use any of a number of emerging multicast techniques.  We
identify the requirements that Nimrod has of a solution for multicast
support.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


2101    Carpenter       Feb 97  IPv4 Address Behaviour Today

The main purpose of this note is to clarify the current interpretation
of the 32-bit IP version 4 address space, whose significance has changed
substantially since it was originally defined.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


2100    Ashworth        Apr 97  The Naming of Hosts

This RFC is a commentary on the difficulty of deciding upon an
acceptably distinctive hostname for one's computer, a problem which
grows in direct proportion to the logarithmically increasing size of the
Internet.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.

Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Alegre Ramos
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: ramos@isi.edu









Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 22]

RFC 2199                  Summary of 2100-2199              January 1998


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
























Ramos                        Informational                     [Page 23]

