





Network Working Group                                          S. Ginoza
Request for Comments: 2899                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                         May 2001


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 2800-2899

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2800
   through RFCs 2899.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----

2899    Ginoza          May 2001        Request for Comments Summary

This memo.


2898    Kaliski         Sep 2000        PKCS #5: Password-Based
                                        Cryptography Specification
                                        Version 2.0

This document provides recommendations for the implementation of
password-based cryptography, covering key derivation functions,
encryption schemes, message-authentication schemes, and ASN.1 syntax
identifying the techniques.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.



Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2897    Cromwell        Aug 2000        Proposal for an MGCP Advanced
                                        Audio Package

This document is a proposal to add a new event/signal package to the
MGCP (Media Gateway Control Protocol) protocol to control an ARF (Audio
Resource Function) which may reside on a Media Gateway or specialized
Audio Server.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2896    Bierman         Aug 2000        Remote Network Monitoring MIB
                                        Protocol Identifier Macros

This memo contains various protocol identifier examples, which can be
used to produce valid protocolDirTable INDEX encodings, as defined by
the Remote Network Monitoring MIB and the RMON Protocol Identifier
Reference.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2895    Bierman         Aug 2000        Remote Network Monitoring MIB
                                        Protocol Identifier Reference

This memo defines a notation describing protocol layers in a protocol
encapsulation, specifically for use in encoding INDEX values for the
protocolDirTable, found in the RMON-2 MIB.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2894    Crawford        Aug 2000        Router Renumbering for IPv6

This document defines a mechanism called Router Renumbering ("RR") which
allows address prefixes on routers to be configured and reconfigured
almost as easily as the combination of Neighbor Discovery and Address
Autoconfiguration works for hosts.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2893    Gilligan        Aug 2000        Transition Mechanisms for IPv6
                                        Hosts and Routers

This document specifies IPv4 compatibility mechanisms that can be
implemented by IPv6 hosts and routers.  [STANDARDS TRACK]











Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2892    Tsiang          Aug 2000        The Cisco SRP MAC Layer
                                        Protocol

This document specifies the MAC layer protocol, "Spatial Reuse Protocol"
(SRP) for use with ring based media.  This is a second version of the
protocol (V2).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2891    Howes           Aug 2000        LDAP Control Extension for
                                        Server Side Sorting of Search
                                        Results

This document describes two LDAPv3 control extensions for server side
sorting of search results.  These controls allows a client to specify
the attribute types and matching rules a server should use when
returning the results to an LDAP search request.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2890    Dommety         Sep 2000        Key and Sequence Number
                                        Extensions to GRE

This document describes extensions by which two fields, Key and Sequence
Number, can be optionally carried in the GRE Header.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2889    Mandeville      Aug 2000        Benchmarking Methodology for
                                        LAN Switching Devices

This document is intended to provide methodology for the benchmarking of
local area network (LAN) switching devices.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2888    Srisuresh       Aug 2000        Secure Remote Access with L2TP

The objective of this document is to extend security characteristics of
IPsec to remote access users, as they dial-in through the Internet.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2887    Handley         Aug 2000        The Reliable Multicast Design
                                        Space for Bulk Data Transfer

This document provides an overview of the design space and the ways in
which application constraints affect possible solutions.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.




Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2886    Taylor          Sep 2000        Megaco Errata

This document records the errors found in the Megaco/H.248 protocol
document, along with the changes proposed in the text of that document
to resolve them.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2885    Cuervo          Sep 2000        Megaco Protocol version 0.8

This document is common text with Recommendation H.248 as redetermined
in Geneva, February 2000.  It must be read in conjunction with the
Megaco Errata, RFC 2886.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2884    Hadi Salim      Jul 2000        Performance Evaluation of
                                        Explicit Congestion
                                        Notification (ECN) in IP
                                        Networks

This memo presents a performance study of the Explicit Congestion
Notification (ECN) mechanism in the TCP/IP protocol using our
implementation on the Linux Operating System.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2883    Floyd           Jul 2000        An Extension to the Selective
                                        Acknowledgement (SACK) Option
                                        for TCP

This note defines an extension of the Selective Acknowledgement (SACK)
Option for TCP.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2882    Mitton          Jul 2000        Network Access Servers
                                        Requirements: Extended RADIUS
                                        Practices

This document describes current practices implemented in NAS products
that go beyond the scope of the RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial In
User Service) RFCs 2138, 2139.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.










Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2881    Mitton          Jul 2000        Network Access Server
                                        Requirements Next Generation
                                        (NASREQNG) NAS Model

This document describes the terminology and gives a model of typical
Network Access Server (NAS).  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2880    McIntyre        Aug 2000        Internet Fax T.30 Feature
                                        Mapping

This document describes how to map Group 3 fax capability identification
bits, described in ITU T.30, into the Internet fax feature schema
described in "Content feature schema for Internet fax".  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2879    Klyne           Aug 2000        Content Feature Schema for
                                        Internet Fax (V2)

This document defines a content media feature schema for Internet fax.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2878    Higashiyama     Jul 2000        PPP Bridging Control Protocol
                                        (BCP)

This document defines the Network Control Protocol for establishing and
configuring Remote Bridging for PPP links.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2877    Murphy, Jr.     Jul 2000        5250 Telnet Enhancements

This memo describes the interface to the IBM 5250 Telnet server that
allows client Telnet to request a Telnet terminal or printer session
using a specific device name.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2876    Pawling         Jul 2000        Use of the KEA and SKIPJACK
                                        Algorithms in CMS

This document describes the conventions for using the Key Exchange
Algorithm (KEA) and SKIPJACK encryption algorithm in conjunction with
the Cryptographic Message Syntax [CMS] enveloped-data and encrypted-
data content types.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.



Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2875    Prafullchandra  Jul 2000        Diffie-Hellman
                                        Proof-of-Possession Algorithms

This document describes two methods for producing an integrity check
value from a Diffie-Hellman key pair.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2874    Crawford        Jul 2000        DNS Extensions to Support IPv6
                                        Address Aggregation and
                                        Renumbering

This document defines changes to the Domain Name System to support
renumberable and aggregatable IPv6 addressing.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2873    Xiao            Jun 2000        TCP Processing of the IPv4
                                        Precedence Field

This memo describes a conflict between TCP and DiffServ on the use of
the three leftmost bits in the TOS octet of an IPv4 header.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


2872    Bernet          Jun 2000        Application and Sub
                                        Application Identity Policy
                                        Element for Use with RSVP

RSVP signaling messages typically include policy data objects, which in
turn contain policy elements.  Policy elements may describe user and/or
application information, which may be used by RSVP aware network
elements to apply appropriate policy decisions to a traffic flow.  This
memo details the usage of policy elements that provide application
information.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2871    Rosenberg       Jun 2000        A Framework for Telephony
                                        Routing over IP

This document serves as a framework for Telephony Routing over IP
(TRIP), which supports the discovery and exchange of IP telephony
gateway routing tables between providers.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.









Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2870    Bush            Jun 2000        Root Name Server Operational
                                        Requirements

The primary focus of this document is to provide guidelines for
operation of the root name servers.  This document specifies an Internet
Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2869    Rigney          Jun 2000        RADIUS Extensions

This document describes additional attributes for carrying
authentication, authorization and accounting information between a
Network Access Server (NAS) and a shared Accounting Server using the
Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS) protocol described
in RFC 2865 and RFC 2866.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2868    Zorn            Jun 2000        RADIUS Attributes for Tunnel
                                        Protocol Support

This document defines a set of RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial In
User Service) attributes designed to support the provision of compulsory
tunneling in dial-up networks.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2867    Zorn            Jun 2000        RADIUS Accounting
                                        Modifications for Tunnel
                                        Protocol Support

This document defines new RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial In User
Service) accounting Attributes and new values for the existing Acct-
Status-Type Attribute designed to support the provision of compulsory
tunneling in dial-up networks.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2866    Rigney          Jun 2000        RADIUS Accounting

This document describes a protocol for carrying accounting information
between a Network Access Server and a shared Accounting Server.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.







Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2865    Rigney          Jun 2000        Remote Authentication Dial In
                                        User Service (RADIUS)

This document describes a protocol for carrying authentication,
authorization, and configuration information between a Network Access
Server which desires to authenticate its links and a shared
Authentication Server.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2864    McCloghrie      Jun 2000        The Inverted Stack Table
                                        Extension to the Interfaces
                                        Group MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects which provide an inverted
mapping of the interface stack table used for managing network
interfaces.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2863    McCloghrie      Jun 2000        The Interfaces Group MIB

This memo discusses the 'interfaces' group of MIB-II, especially the
experience gained from the definition of numerous media-specific MIB
modules for use in conjunction with the 'interfaces' group for managing
various sub-layers beneath the internetwork-layer.  It specifies
clarifications to, and extensions of, the architectural issues within
the MIB-II model of the 'interfaces' group.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2862    Civanlar        Jun 2000         RTP Payload Format for
                                         Real-Time Pointers

This document describes an RTP payload format for transporting the
coordinates of a dynamic pointer that may be used during a presentation.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2861    Handley         Jun 2000        TCP Congestion Window
                                        Validation

This document describes a simple modification to TCP's congestion
control algorithms to decay the congestion window cwnd after the
transition from a sufficiently-long application-limited period, while
using the slow-start threshold ssthresh to save information about the
previous value of the congestion window.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.




Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2860    Carpenter       Jun 2000        Memorandum of Understanding
                                        Concerning the Technical Work
                                        of the Internet Assigned
                                        Numbers Authority

This document places on record the text of the Memorandum of
Understanding concerning the technical work of the IANA that was signed
on March 1, 2000 between the IETF and ICANN, and ratified by the ICANN
Board on March 10, 2000.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


2859    Fang            Jun 2000        A Time Sliding Window Three
                                        This memo defines a Time

This memo defines a Time Sliding Window Three Colour Marker (TSWTCM),
which can be used as a component in a Diff-Serv traffic conditioner.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2858    Bates           Jun 2000        Multiprotocol Extensions for
                                        BGP-4

This document defines extensions to BGP-4 to enable it to carry routing
information for multiple Network Layer protocols (e.g., IPv6, IPX,
etc...).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2857    Keromytis       Jun 2000        The Use of HMAC-RIPEMD-160-96
                                        within ESP and AH

This memo describes the use of the HMAC algorithm in conjunction with
the RIPEMD-160 algorithm as an authentication mechanism within the
revised IPSEC Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and the revised IPSEC
Authentication Header (AH).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2856    Bierman         Jun 2000        Textual Conventions for
                                        Additional High Capacity Data
                                        Types

This memo specifies new textual conventions for additional high capacity
data types, intended for SNMP implementations which already support the
Counter64 data type.  [STANDARDS TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2855    Fujisawa        Jun 2000        DHCP for IEEE 1394

This memo describes specific usage of some fields of DHCP (Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol) messages.  IEEE Std 1394-1995 is a standard for
a High Performance Serial Bus.  Since 1394 uses a different link-layer
addressing method than conventional IEEE802/Ethernet, the usage of some
fields must be clarified to achieve interoperability.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2854    Connolly        Jun 2000        The 'text/html' Media Type

This document summarizes the history of HTML development, and defines
the "text/html" MIME type by pointing to the relevant W3C
recommendations.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


2853    Kabat           Jun 2000        Generic Security Service API
                                        Version 2 : Java Bindings

This document specifies the Java bindings for GSS-API (Generic Security
Service Application Program Interface) which is described at a language
independent conceptual level in RFC 2743.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2852    Newman          Jun 2000        Deliver By SMTP Service
                                        Extension

This memo defines a mechanism whereby a SMTP client can request, when
transmitting a message to a SMTP server, that the server deliver the
message within a prescribed period of time.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2851    Daniele         Jun 2000        Textual Conventions for
                                        Internet Network Addresses

This MIB module defines textual conventions to represent commonly used
Internet network layer addressing information.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2850    IAB             May 2000        Charter of the Internet
                                        Architecture Board (IAB)

This memo documents the composition, selection, roles, and organization
of the Internet Architecture Board.  It replaces RFC 1601.  This
document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet
Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.




Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2849    Good            Jun 2000        The LDAP Data Interchange
                                        Format (LDIF) - Technical
                                        Specification

This document describes a file format suitable for describing directory
information or modifications made to directory information.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


2848    Petrack         Jun 2000        The PINT Service Protocol:
                                        Extensions to SIP and SDP for
                                        IP Access to Telephone Call
                                        Services

This document contains the specification of the PINT Service Protocol
1.0, which defines a protocol for invoking certain telephone services
from an IP network.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2847    Eisler          Jun 2000        LIPKEY - A Low Infrastructure
                                        Public Key Mechanism Using SPKM

This memorandum describes a method whereby one can use GSS-API (Generic
Security Service Application Program Interface)  to supply a secure
channel between a client and server, authenticating the client with a
password, and a server with a public key certificate.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2846    Allocchio       Jun 2000        GSTN Address Element
                                        Extensions in E-mail Services

This memo defines a full syntax for a specific application in which
there is a need to represent GSTN (Global Switched Telephone Network)
addressing and Internet addressing.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2845    Vixie           May 2000        Secret Key Transaction
                                        Authentication for DNS (TSIG)

This protocol allows for transaction level authentication using shared
secrets and one way hashing.  It can be used to authenticate dynamic
updates as coming from an approved client, or to authenticate responses
as coming from an approved recursive name server.  [STANDARDS TRACK]








Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2844    Przygienda      May 2000        OSPF over ATM and Proxy-PAR

This memo specifies, for OSPF implementors and users, mechanisms
describing how the protocol operates in ATM networks over PVC (Permanent
Virtual Connections) and SVC (Switched Virtual Circuit) meshes with the
presence of Proxy-PAR (PNNI Augmented Routing).  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


2843    Droz            May 2000        Proxy-PAR

The intention of this document is to provide general information about
Proxy-PAR (PNNI Augmented Routing).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2842    Chandra         May 2000        Capabilities Advertisement
                                        with BGP-4

This document defines new Optional Parameter, called Capabilities, that
is expected to facilitate introduction of new capabilities in BGP by
providing graceful capability advertisement without requiring that BGP
peering be terminated.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2841    Metzger         Nov 2000        IP Authentication using Keyed
                                        SHA1 with Interleaved Padding
                                        (IP-MAC)

This document describes the use of keyed SHA1 (Secure Hash Algorithm)
with the IP Authentication Header.  This memo defines a Historic
Document for the Internet community.


2840    Altman          May 2000        TELNET KERMIT OPTION

This document describes an extension to the Telnet protocol to allow the
negotiation, coordination, and use of the Kermit file transfer and
management protocol over an existing Telnet protocol connection.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2839    da Cruz         May 2000        Internet Kermit Service

This document describes a new file transfer service for the Internet
based on Telnet Protocol for option negotiation and Kermit Protocol for
file transfer and management.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.




Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2838    Zigmond         May 2000        Uniform Resource Identifiers
                                        for Television Broadcasts

This document describes a widely-implemented URI scheme, as World-Wide
Web browsers are starting to appear on a variety of consumer electronic
devices, such as television sets and television set-top boxes, which are
capable of receiving television programming from either terrestrial
broadcast, satellite broadcast, or cable.  In this context there is a
need to reference television broadcasts using the URI format described
in RFC 2396.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2837    Teow            May 2000        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the Fabric Element in
                                        Fibre Channel Standard

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines the objects for managing the operations of the
Fabric Element portion of the Fibre Channel Standards.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


2836    Brim            May 2000        Per Hop Behavior
                                        Identification Codes

This document defines a binary encoding to uniquely identify PHBs (Per
Hop Behaviors) and/or sets of PHBs in protocol messages.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


2835    Pittet          May 2000        IP and ARP over HIPPI-6400
                                        (GSN)

This document further specifies a method for resolving IP addresses to
HIPPI-6400 (High-Performance Parallel Interface) hardware addresses
(HARP) and for emulating IP broadcast in a logical IP subnet (LIS) as a
direct extension of HARP.  Furthermore, it is the goal of this memo to
define a IP and HARP that will allow interoperability for HIPPI-800 and
HIPPI-6400 equipment both broadcast and non-broadcast capable networks.
[STANDARDS TRACK]










Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2834    Pittet          May 2000        ARP and IP Broadcast over
                                        HIPPI-800

This document specifies a method for resolving IP addresses to ANSI
High-Performance Parallel Interface (HIPPI) hardware addresses and for
emulating IP broadcast in a logical IP subnet (LIS) as a direct
extension of HARP (hardware addresses).  This memo defines a HARP that
will interoperate between HIPPI-800 and HIPPI-6400 (also known as
Gigabyte System Network, GSN).  This document (when combined with RFC
2067 "IP over HIPPI") obsoletes RFC 1374.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2833    Schulzrinne     May 2000        RTP Payload for DTMF Digits,
                                        Telephony Tones and Telephony
                                        Signals

This memo describes how to carry dual-tone multifrequency (DTMF)
signaling, other tone signals and telephony events in RTP packets.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2832    Hollenbeck      May 2000        NSI Registry Registrar
                                        Protocol (RRP) Version 1.1.0

This document describes a protocol for the registration and management
of second level domain names and associated name servers in both generic
Top Level Domains (gTLDs) and country code Top Level Domains (ccTLDs).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2831    Leach           May 2000        Using Digest Authentication as
                                        a SASL Mechanism

This specification defines how HTTP Digest Authentication can be used as
a SASL mechanism for any protocol that has a SASL (Simple Authentication
and Security Layer) profile.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2830    Hodges          May 2000        Lightweight Directory Access
                                        Protocol (v3): Extension for
                                        Transport Layer Security

This document defines the "Start Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Operation" for LDAP.  [STANDARDS TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2829    Wahl            May 2000        Authentication Methods for
                                        LDAP

This document specifies particular combinations of security mechanisms
which are required and recommended in LDAP implementations.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


2828    Shirey          May 2000        Internet Security Glossary

This Glossary provides abbreviations, explanations, and recommendations
for use of information system security terminology.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


2827    Ferguson        May 2000        Network Ingress Filtering:
                                        Defeating Denial of Service
                                        Attacks which employ IP Source
                                        Address Spoofing

This paper discusses a simple, effective, and straightforward method for
using ingress traffic filtering to prohibit DoS (Denial of Service)
attacks which use forged IP addresses to be propagated from 'behind' an
Internet Service Provider's (ISP) aggregation point.  This document
specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community,
and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


2826    IAB             May 2000        IAB Technical Comment on the
                                        Unique DNS Root

This document discusses the existence of a globally unique public name
space in the Internet called the DNS (Domain Name System).  This name
space is a hierarchical name space derived from a single, globally
unique root.  It is a technical constraint inherent in the design of the
DNS.  One root must be supported by a set of coordinated root servers
administered by a unique naming authority.  It is not technically
feasible for there to be more than one root in the public DNS.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.












Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2825    IAB             May 2000        A Tangled Web: Issues of I18N,
                                        Domain Names, and the Other
                                        Internet protocols

This document is a statement by the Internet Architecture Board.  It is
not a protocol specification, but an attempt to clarify the range of
architectural issues that the internationalization of domain names
faces.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2824    Lennox          May 2000        Call Processing Language
                                        Framework and Requirements

This document describes an architectural framework we call a processing
language, as a simple and standardized way for implementing and
deploying Internet telephony.  A large number of the services we wish to
make possible for Internet telephony require fairly elaborate
combinations of signalling operations, often in network devices, to
complete.  It also outlines requirements for such a language.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2823    Carlson         May 2000        PPP over Simple Data Link
                                        (SDL) using SONET/SDH with
                                        ATM-like framing

This document extends methods found in the Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)
and RFCs 1662 and 2615 to include a new encapsulation for PPP called
Simple Data Link (SDL).  SDL provides a standard method for transporting
multi-protocol datagrams over point-to-point links, and RFCs 1662 and
2615 provide a means to carry PPP over Synchronous Optical Network
(SONET) and Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH) circuits.  SDL provides
a very low overhead alternative to HDLC-like encapsulation, and can also
be used on SONET/SDH links.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol
for the Internet community.


2822    Resnick         Apr 2001        Internet Message Format

This document specifies a syntax for text messages that are sent between
computer users, within the framework of "electronic mail" messages.
[STANDARDS TRACK]









Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2821    Klensin         Apr 2001        Simple Mail Transfer Protocol

This document is a self-contained specification of the basic protocol
for the Internet electronic mail transport.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2820    Stokes          May 2000        Access Control Requirements
                                        for LDAP

This document describes the fundamental requirements of an access
control list (ACL) model for the Lightweight Directory Application
Protocol (LDAP) directory service.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


2819    Waldbusser      May 2000        Remote Network Monitoring
                                        Management Information Base

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing remote network monitoring
devices.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2818    Rescorla        May 2000        HTTP Over TLS


This memo describes how to use Transport Layer Security (TLS) to secure
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) connections over the Internet.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2817    Khare           May 2000        Upgrading to TLS Within
                                        HTTP/1.1

This memo explains how to use the Upgrade mechanism in HTTP/1.1 to
initiate Transport Layer Security (TLS) over an existing TCP connection.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


2816    Ghanwani        May 2000        A Framework for Integrated
                                        Services Over Shared and
                                        Switched IEEE 802 LAN
                                        Technologies

This memo describes a framework for supporting IETF Integrated Services
on shared and switched LAN infrastructure.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.



Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2815    Seaman          May 2000        Integrated Service Mappings on
                                        IEEE 802 Networks

This document describes mappings of IETF Integrated Services over LANs
built from IEEE 802 network segments which may be interconnected by IEEE
802.1D MAC Bridges (switches).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2814    Yavatkar        May 2000        SBM (Subnet Bandwidth
                                        Manager): A Protocol for
                                        RSVP-based Admission Control
                                        over IEEE 802-style networks

This document describes a signaling method and protocol for RSVP-based
admission control over IEEE 802-style LANs.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


2813    Kalt            Apr 2000        Internet Relay Chat: Server
                                        Protocol

This document defines the protocol used by servers to talk to each
other.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2812    Kalt            Apr 2000        Internet Relay Chat: Client
                                        Protocol

This document defines the Client Protocol, and assumes that the reader
is familiar with the IRC Architecture.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


2811    Kalt            Apr 2000        Internet Relay Chat: Channel
                                        Management

This document specifies how channels, their characteristics and
properties are managed by IRC servers.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


2810    Kalt            Apr 2000        Internet Relay Chat:
                                        Architecture

This document is an update describing the architecture of the current
IRC protocol and the role of its different components.  Other documents
describe in detail the protocol used between the various components
defined here.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.



Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2809    Aboba           Apr 2000        Implementation of L2TP
                                        Compulsory Tunneling via
                                        RADIUS

This document discusses implementation issues arising in the
provisioning of compulsory tunneling in dial-up networks using the L2TP
(Layer Two Tunneling Protocol) protocol.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


2808    Nystrom         Apr 2000        The SecurID(r) SASL Mechanism

This document defines a SASL (Simple Authentication and Security Layer)
authentication mechanism using SecurID (a hardware token card product
(or software emulation thereof) produced by RSA Security Inc., which is
used for end-user authentication), thereby providing a means for such
tokens to be used in SASL environments.  This mechanism is only is only
for authentication, and has no effect on the protocol encoding and is
not designed to provide integrity or confidentiality services.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


2807    Reagle          Jul 2000        XML Signature Requirements

This document lists the design principles, scope, and requirements for
the XML Digital Signature specification.  It includes requirements as
they relate to the signature syntax, data model, format, cryptographic
processing, and external requirements and coordination.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


2806    Vaha-Sipila     Apr 2000        URLs for Telephone Calls


This document specifies URL (Uniform Resource Locator) schemes "tel",
"fax" and "modem" for specifying the location of a terminal in the phone
network and the connection types (modes of operation) that can be used
to connect to that entity.  [STANDARDS TRACK]













Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2805    Greene          Apr 2000        Media Gateway Control Protocol
                                        Architecture and Requirements

This document describes protocol requirements for the Media Gateway
Control Protocol between a Media Gateway Controller and a Media Gateway.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2804    IAB             May 2000        IETF Policy on Wiretapping

This document describes the position that the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF) has taken regarding the inclusion into IETF standards-track
documents of functionality designed to facilitate wiretapping.  This
memo explains what the IETF thinks the question means, why its answer is
"no", and what that answer means.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


2803    Maruyama        Apr 2000        Digest Values for DOM (DOMHASH)

This memo defines a clear and unambiguous definition of digest (hash)
values of the XML objects regardless of the surface string variation of
XML.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


2802    Davidson        Apr 2000        Digital Signatures for the
                                        v1.0 Internet Open Trading
                                        Protocol (IOTP)

This document describes the syntax and procedures for the computation
and verification of digital signatures for use within Version 1.0 of the
Internet Open Trading Protocol (IOTP).  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


2801    Burdett         Apr 2000        Internet Open Trading Protocol
                                        - IOTP Version 1.0

This document discusses the Internet Open Trading Protocol (IOTP) and
its provision of an interoperable framework for Internet commerce.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.










Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


2800    Reynolds        May 2001        Internet Official Protocol
                                        Standards

This memo contains a snapshot of the state of standardization of
protocols used in the Internet as of April 17, 2001.  It lists only
official protocol standards RFCs; it is not a complete index to the RFC
series.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

Security Considerations

   This memo does not affect the technical security of the Internet, but
   may cite important security specifications.

Author's Address

   Sandy Ginoza
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: ginoza@isi.edu



























Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 2899                  Summary of 2800-2899                  May 2001


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 22]

