





Network Working Group                                          S. Ginoza
Request for Comments: 3299                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                    December 2003


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 3200-3299

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 3200
   through RFC 3299.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----

3299    Ginoza          Dec 2003        Request for Comments Summary

This memo.














Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3298    Faynberg        Aug 2002        Service in the Public Switched
                                        Telephone Network/Intelligent
                                        Network (PSTN/IN) Requesting
                                        InTernet Service (SPIRITS)
                                        Protocol Requirements

This document describes the SPIRITS protocol requirements, based on the
architecture presented in RFC 3136.  (SPIRITS stands for "Service in the
PSTN/IN Requesting InTernet Service".)  The purpose of the protocol is
to support services that originate in the Public Switched Telephone
Network (PSTN) and necessitate the interactions between the PSTN and the
Internet.  Similarly, such services are called SPIRITS services.
(Internet Call Waiting, Internet Caller-ID Delivery, and Internet Call
Forwarding are examples of SPIRIT services, but the protocol is to
define the building blocks from which many other services can be built.)
On the PSTN side, the SPIRITS services are initiated from the
Intelligent Network (IN) entities; the earlier IETF work on the
PSTN/Internet Interworking (PINT) resulted in the protocol (RFC 2848) in
support of the services initiated the other way around--from the
Internet to PSTN.

To this end, this document lists general requirements for the SPIRITS
protocol as well as those pertinent to IN, Wireless IN, and PINT
building blocks.  The document also presents the SPIRITS WG consensus on
the choice of the SPIRITS signaling protocol.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3297    Klyne           Jul 2002        Content Negotiation for
                                        Messaging Services based on
                                        Email

This memo describes a content negotiation mechanism for facsimile, voice
and other messaging services that use Internet email.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3296    Zeilenga        Jul 2002        Named Subordinate References
                                        in Lightweight Directory
                                        Access Protocol (LDAP)
                                        Directories

This document details schema and protocol elements for representing and
managing named subordinate references in Lightweight Directory Access
Protocol (LDAP) Directories.  [STANDARDS TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3295    Sjostrand       Jun 2002        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the General Switch
                                        Management Protocol (GSMP)

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
the use with the network management protocols in the Internet community.
In particular, it describes managed objects for the General Switch
Management Protocol (GSMP).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3294    Doria           Jun 2002        General Switch Management
                                        Protocol (GSMP) Applicability

This memo provides an overview of the GSMP (General Switch Management
Protocol) and includes information relating to its deployment in a IP
network in an MPLS environment.  It does not discuss deployment in an
ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode) network or in a raw ethernet
configuration.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3293    Doria           Jun 2002        General Switch Management
                                        Protocol (GSMP) Packet
                                        Encapsulations for
                                        Asynchronous Transfer Mode
                                        (ATM), Ethernet and
                                        Transmission Control Protocol
                                        (TCP)

This memo specifies the encapsulation of GSMP (General Switch Management
Protocol) packets in ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode), Ethernet and TCP
(Transmission Control Protocol).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3292    Doria           Jun 2002        General Switch Management
                                        Protocol (GSMP) V3

This document describes the General Switch Management Protocol Version 3
(GSMPv3).  The GSMPv3 is an asymmetric protocol that allows one or more
external switch controllers to establish and maintain the state of a
label switch such as, an ATM, frame relay or MPLS switch.  The GSMPv3
allows control of both unicast and multicast switch connection state as
well as control of switch system resources and QoS features.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3291    Daniele         May 2002        Textual Conventions for
                                        Internet Network Addresses

This MIB module defines textual conventions to represent commonly used
Internet network layer addressing information.  The intent is that these
textual conventions (TCs) will be imported and used in MIB modules that
would otherwise define their own representations.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3290    Bernet          May 2002        An Informal Management Model
                                        for Diffserv Routers

This document proposes an informal management model of Differentiated
Services (Diffserv) routers for use in their management and
configuration.  This model defines functional datapath elements (e.g.,
classifiers, meters, actions, marking, absolute dropping, counting,
multiplexing), algorithmic droppers, queues and schedulers.  It
describes possible configuration parameters for these elements and how
they might be interconnected to realize the range of traffic
conditioning and per-hop behavior (PHB) functionalities described in the
Diffserv Architecture.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3289    Baker           May 2002        Management Information Base
                                        for the Differentiated
                                        Services Architecture

This memo describes an SMIv2 (Structure of Management Information
version 2) MIB for a device implementing the Differentiated Services
Architecture.  It may be used both for monitoring and configuration of a
router or switch capable of Differentiated Services functionality.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3288    O'Tuathail      Jun 2002        Using the Simple Object Access
                                        Protocol (SOAP) in Blocks
                                        Extensible Exchange Protocol
                                        (BEEP)

This memo specifies a Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) binding to
the Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol core (BEEP).  A SOAP binding
describes how SOAP messages are transmitted in the network.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3287    Bierman         Jul 2002        Remote Monitoring MIB
                                        Extensions for
                                        Differentiated Services

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for monitoring
Differentiated Services (DS) Codepoint usage in packets which contain a
DS field, utilizing the monitoring framework defined in the RMON-2
(Remote Network Monitoring Management Version 2) MIB.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3286    Ong             May 2002        An Introduction to the Stream
                                        Control Transmission Protocol
                                        (SCTP)

This document provides a high level introduction to the capabilities
supported by the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).  It is
intended as a guide for potential users of SCTP as a general purpose
transport protocol.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3285    Gahrns          May 2002        Using Microsoft Word to create
                                        Internet Drafts and RFCs

This document describes the steps to configure the Microsoft Word
application to produce documents in Internet Draft and RFC format.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


3284    Korn            Jun 2002        The VCDIFF Generic
                                        Differencing and Compression
                                        Data Format

This memo describes VCDIFF, a general, efficient and portable data
format suitable for encoding compressed and/or differencing data so that
they can be easily transported among computers.  [STANDARDS TRACK]













Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3283    Mahoney         Jun 2002        Guide to Internet Calendaring

This document describes the various Internet calendaring and scheduling
standards and works in progress, and the relationships between them.
Its intent is to provide a context for these documents, assist in their
understanding, and potentially aid in the design of standards-based
calendaring and scheduling systems.  The standards addressed are RFC
2445 (iCalendar), RFC 2446 (iTIP), and RFC 2447 (iMIP).  The work in
progress addressed is "Calendar Access Protocol" (CAP).  This document
also describes issues and problems that are not solved by these
protocols, and that could be targets for future work.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3282    Alvestrand      May 2002        Content Language Headers

This document defines a "Content-language:" header, for use in cases
where one desires to indicate the language of something that has RFC
822-like headers, like MIME body parts or Web documents, and an
"Accept-Language:" header for use in cases where one wishes to indicate
one's preferences with regard to language.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3281    Farrell         Apr 2002        An Internet Attribute
                                        Certificate Profile for
                                        Authorization

This specification defines a profile for the use of X.509 Attribute
Certificates in Internet Protocols.  Attribute certificates may be used
in a wide range of applications and environments covering a broad
spectrum of interoperability goals and a broader spectrum of operational
and assurance requirements.  The goal of this document is to establish a
common baseline for generic applications requiring broad
interoperability as well as limited special purpose requirements.  The
profile places emphasis on attribute certificate support for Internet
electronic mail, IPSec, and WWW security applications.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3280    Housley         Apr 2002        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Certificate and
                                        Certificate Revocation List
                                        (CRL) Profile

This memo profiles the X.509 v3 certificate and X.509 v2 Certificate
Revocation List (CRL) for use in the Internet.  [STANDARDS TRACK]





Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3279    Polk            Apr 2002        Algorithms and Identifiers for
                                        the Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Certificate and
                                        Certificate Revocation List
                                        (CRL) Profile

This document specifies algorithm identifiers and ASN.1 encoding formats
for digital signatures and subject public keys used in the Internet
X.509 Public Key Infrastructure (PKI).  Digital signatures are used to
sign certificates and certificate revocation list (CRLs).  Certificates
include the public key of the named subject.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3278    Blake-Wilson    Apr 2002        Use of Elliptic Curve
                                        Cryptography (ECC) Algorithms
                                        in Cryptographic Message
                                        Syntax (CMS)


This document describes how to use Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC)
public-key algorithms in the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS).  The
ECC algorithms support the creation of digital signatures and the
exchange of keys to encrypt or authenticate content.  The definition of
the algorithm processing is based on the ANSI X9.62 standard, developed
by the ANSI X9F1 working group, the IEEE 1363 standard, and the SEC 1
standard.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3277    McPherson       Apr 2002        Intermediate System to
                                        Intermediate System (IS-IS)
                                        Transient Blackhole Avoidance

This document describes a simple, interoperable mechanism that can be
employed in Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS) networks
in order to decrease the data loss associated with deterministic
blackholing of packets during transient network conditions.  The
mechanism proposed here requires no IS-IS protocol changes and is
completely interoperable with the existing IS-IS specification.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.












Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3276    Ray             May 2002        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for High Bit-Rate DSL - 2nd
                                        generation (HDSL2) and
                                        Single-Pair High-Speed Digital
                                        Subscriber Line (SHDSL) Lines

This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
module for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes objects used for managing High
Bit-Rate DSL - 2nd generation (HDSL2) and Single-Pair High-Speed Digital
Subscriber Line (SHDSL) interfaces.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3275    Eastlake 3rd    Mar 2002        (Extensible Markup Language)
                                        XML-Signature Syntax and
                                        Processing

This document specifies XML (Extensible Markup Language) digital
signature processing rules and syntax.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3274    Gutmann         Jun 2002        Compressed Data Content Type
                                        for Cryptographic Message
                                        Syntax (CMS)

This document defines a format for using compressed data as a
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) content type.  Compressing data
before transmission provides a number of advantages, including the
elimination of data redundancy which could help an attacker, speeding up
processing by reducing the amount of data to be processed by later steps
(such as signing or encryption), and reducing overall message size.
Although there have been proposals for adding compression at other
levels (for example at the MIME or SSL level), these don't address the
problem of compression of CMS content unless the compression is supplied
by an external means (for example by intermixing MIME and CMS).
[STANDARDS TRACK]















Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3273    Waldbusser      Jul 2002        Remote Network Monitoring
                                        Management Information Base
                                        for High Capacity Networks

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing remote network monitoring
(RMON) devices for use on high speed networks.  This document contains a
MIB Module that defines these new objects and also contains definitions
of some updated objects from the RMON-MIB in RFC 2819 and the RMON2-MIB
in RFC 2021.  [PROPOSED STANDARD]


3272    Awduche         May 2002        Overview and Principles of
                                        Internet Traffic Engineering

This memo describes the principles of Traffic Engineering (TE) in the
Internet.  The document is intended to promote better understanding of
the issues surrounding traffic engineering in IP networks, and to
provide a common basis for the development of traffic engineering
capabilities for the Internet.  The principles, architectures, and
methodologies for performance evaluation and performance optimization of
operational IP networks are discussed throughout this document.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


3271    Cerf            Apr 2002        The Internet is for Everyone

This document expresses the Internet Society's ideology that the
Internet really is for everyone.  However, it will only be such  if we
make it so.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3270    Le Faucheur     May 2002        Multi-Protocol Label Switching
                                        (MPLS) Support of
                                        Differentiated Services

This document defines a flexible solution for support of Differentiated
Services (Diff-Serv) over Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS)
networks.  [STANDARDS TRACK]











Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3269    Kermode         Apr 2002        Author Guidelines for Reliable
                                        Multicast Transport (RMT)
                                        Building Blocks and Protocol
                                        Instantiation documents

This document provides general guidelines to assist the authors of
Reliable Multicast Transport (RMT) building block and protocol
instantiation definitions.  The purpose of these guidelines is to ensure
that any building block and protocol instantiation definitions produced
contain sufficient information to fully explain their operation and use.
In addition these guidelines provide directions to specify modular and
clearly defined RMT building blocks and protocol instantiations that can
be refined and augmented to safely create new protocols for use in new
scenarios for which any existing protocols were not designed.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3268    Chown           Jun 2002        Advanced Encryption Standard
                                        (AES) Ciphersuites for
                                        Transport Layer Security (TLS)

This document proposes several new ciphersuites.  At present, the
symmetric ciphers supported by Transport Layer Security (TLS) are RC2,
RC4, International Data Encryption Algorithm (IDEA), Data Encryption
Standard (DES), and triple DES.  The protocol would be enhanced by the
addition of Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) ciphersuites.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3267    Sjoberg         Jun 2002        Real-Time Transport Protocol
                                        (RTP) Payload Format and File
                                        Storage Format for the
                                        Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and
                                        Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
                                        (AMR-WB) Audio Codecs

This document specifies a real-time transport protocol (RTP) payload
format to be used for Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and Adaptive Multi-Rate
Wideband (AMR-WB) encoded speech signals.  The payload format is
designed to be able to interoperate with existing AMR and AMR-WB
transport formats on non-IP networks.  In addition, a file format is
specified for transport of AMR and AMR-WB speech data in storage mode
applications such as email.  Two separate MIME type registrations are
included, one for AMR and one for AMR-WB, specifying use of both the RTP
payload format and the storage format.  [STANDARDS TRACK]






Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3266    Olson           Jun 2002        Support for IPv6 in Session
                                        Description Protocol (SDP)

This document describes the use of Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)
addresses in conjunction with the Session Description Protocol (SDP).
Specifically, this document clarifies existing text in SDP with regards
to the syntax of IPv6 addresses.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3265    Roach           Jun 2002        Session Initiation Protocol
                                        (SIP)-Specific Event
                                        Notification

This document describes an extension to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP).  The purpose of this extension is to provide an extensible
framework by which SIP nodes can request notification from remote nodes
indicating that certain events have occurred.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3264    Rosenberg       Jun 2002        An Offer/Answer Model with the
                                        Session Description Protocol
                                        (SDP)

This document defines a mechanism by which two entities can make use of
the Session Description Protocol (SDP) to arrive at a common view of a
multimedia session between them.  In the model, one participant offers
the other a description of the desired session from their perspective,
and the other participant answers with the desired session from their
perspective.  This offer/answer model is most useful in unicast sessions
where information from both participants is needed for the complete view
of the session.  The offer/answer model is used by protocols like the
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3263    Rosenberg       Jun 2002        Session Initiation Protocol
                                        (SIP): Locating SIP Servers

The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) uses DNS procedures to allow a
client to resolve a SIP Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) into the IP
address, port, and transport protocol of the next hop to contact.  It
also uses DNS to allow a server to send a response to a backup client if
the primary client has failed.  This document describes those DNS
procedures in detail.  [STANDARDS TRACK]








Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3262    Rosenberg       Jun 2002        Reliability of Provisional
                                        Responses in the Session
                                        Initiation Protocol (SIP)

This document specifies an extension to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) providing reliable provisional response messages.  This extension
uses the option tag 100rel and defines the Provisional Response
ACKnowledgement (PRACK) method.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3261    Rosenberg       Jun 2002        SIP: Session Initiation
                                        Protocol

This document describes Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), an
application-layer control (signaling) protocol for creating, modifying,
and terminating sessions with one or more participants.  These sessions
include Internet telephone calls, multimedia distribution, and
multimedia conferences.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3260    Grossman        Apr 2002        New Terminology and
                                        Clarifications for Diffserv

This memo captures Diffserv working group agreements concerning new and
improved terminology, and provides minor technical clarifications.  It
is intended to update RFC 2474, RFC 2475 and RFC 2597.  When RFCs 2474
and 2597 advance on the standards track, and RFC 2475 is updated, it is
intended that the revisions in this memo will be incorporated, and that
this memo will be obsoleted by the new RFCs.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3259    Ott             Apr 2002        A Message Bus for Local
                                        Coordination

The local Message Bus (Mbus) is a light-weight message-oriented
coordination protocol for group communication between application
components.  The Mbus provides automatic location of communication
peers, subject based addressing, reliable message transfer and different
types of communication schemes.  The protocol is layered on top of IP
multicast and is specified for IPv4 and IPv6.  The IP multicast scope is
limited to link-local multicast.  This document specifies the Mbus
protocol, i.e., message syntax, addressing and transport mechanisms.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3258    Hardie          Apr 2002        Distributing Authoritative
                                        Name Servers via Shared
                                        Unicast Addresses

This memo describes a set of practices intended to enable an
authoritative name server operator to provide access to a single named
server in multiple locations.  The primary motivation for the
development and deployment of these practices is to increase the
distribution of Domain Name System (DNS) servers to previously under-
served areas of the network topology and to reduce the latency for DNS
query responses in those areas.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3257    Coene           Apr 2002        Stream Control Transmission
                                        Protocol Applicability
                                        Statement

This document describes the applicability of the Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP).  It also contrasts SCTP with the two
dominant transport protocols, User Datagram Protocol (UDP) &
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), and gives some guidelines for when
best to use SCTP and when not best to use SCTP.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3256    Jones           Apr 2002        The DOCSIS (Data-Over-Cable
                                        Service Interface
                                        Specifications) Device Class
                                        DHCP (Dynamic Host
                                        Configuration Protocol) Relay
                                        Agent Information Sub-option

This document proposes a new sub-option to the DHCP (Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol) Relay Agent Information Option.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3255    Jones           Apr 2002        Extending Point-to-Point
                                        Protocol (PPP) over
                                        Synchronous Optical
                                        NETwork/Synchronous Digital
                                        Hierarchy (SONET/SDH) with
                                        virtual concatenation, high
                                        order and low order payloads

This document describes an extension to the mapping of Point-to-Point
Protocol (PPP) into Synchronous Optical NETwork/Synchronous Digital
Hierarchy (SONET/SDH) to include the use of SONET/SDH SPE/VC virtual
concatenation and the use of both high order and low order payloads.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3254    Alvestrand      Apr 2002        Definitions for talking about
                                        directories

When discussing systems for making information accessible through the
Internet in standardized ways, it may be useful if the people who are
discussing it have a common understanding of the terms they use.  For
example, a reference to this document would give one the power to agree
that the DNS (Domain Name System) is a global lookup repository with
perimeter integrity and loose, converging consistency.  On the other
hand, a LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) directory server is
a local, centralized repository with both lookup and search capability.
This document discusses one group of such systems which is known under
the term, "directories".  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3253    Clemm           Mar 2002        Versioning Extensions to
                                        WebDAV (Web Distributed
                                        Authoring and Versioning)

This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types
that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)
versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3252    Kennedy         1 April 2002    Binary Lexical Octet Ad-hoc
                                        Transport

This document defines a reformulation of IP and two transport layer
protocols (TCP and UDP) as XML applications.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.





Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3251    Rajagopalan     1 April 2002    Electricity over IP

Mostly Pointless Lamp Switching (MPLampS) is an architecture for
carrying electricity over IP (with an MPLS control plane).  According to
our marketing department, MPLampS has the potential to dramatically
lower the price, ease the distribution and usage, and improve the
manageability of delivering electricity.  This document is motivated by
such work as SONET/SDH over IP/MPLS (with apologies to the authors).
Readers of the previous work have been observed scratching their heads
and muttering, "What next?".  This document answers that question.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.


3250    McIntyre        Sep 2002        Tag Image File Format Fax
                                        eXtended (TIFF-FX) -
                                        image/tiff-fx MIME Sub-type
                                        Registration

This document describes the registration of the MIME sub-type
image/tiff-fx.  The encodings are defined by File Format for Internet
Fax and its extensions.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3249    Cancio          Sep 2002        Implementers Guide for
                                        Facsimile Using Internet Mail

This document is intended for the implementers of software that use
email to send to facsimiles using RFC 2305 and 2532.  This is an
informational document and its guidelines do not supersede the
referenced documents.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.




















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3248    Armitage        Mar 2002        A Delay Bound alternative
                                        revision of RFC 2598

For historical interest, this document captures the EF Design Team's
proposed solution, preferred by the original authors of RFC 2598 but not
adopted by the working group in December 2000.  The original definition
of EF was based on comparison of forwarding on an unloaded network.
This experimental Delay Bound (DB) PHB requires a bound on the delay of
packets due to other traffic in the network.  At the Pittsburgh IETF
meeting in August 2000, the Differentiated Services working group faced
serious questions regarding RFC 2598 - the group's standards track
definition of the Expedited Forwarding (EF) Per Hop Behavior (PHB).  An
'EF Design Team' volunteered to develop a re-expression of RFC 2598,
bearing in mind the issues raised in the DiffServ group.  At the San
Diego IETF meeting in December 2000 the DiffServ working group decided
to pursue an alternative re-expression of the EF PHB.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3247    Charny          Mar 2002        Supplemental Information for
                                        the New Definition of the EF
                                        PHB (Expedited Forwarding
                                        Per-Hop Behavior)

This document was written during the process of clarification of RFC2598
"An Expedited Forwarding PHB" that led to the publication of revised
specification of EF "An Expedited Forwarding PHB".  Its primary
motivation is providing additional explanation to the revised EF
definition and its properties.  The document also provides additional
implementation examples and gives some guidance for computation of the
numerical parameters of the new definition for several well known
schedulers and router architectures.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


3246    Davie           Mar 2002        An Expedited Forwarding PHB
                                        (Per-Hop Behavior)


This document defines a PHB (per-hop behavior) called Expedited
Forwarding (EF).  The PHB is a basic building block in the
Differentiated Services architecture.  EF is intended to provide a
building block for low delay, low jitter and low loss services by
ensuring that the EF aggregate is served at a certain configured rate.
This document obsoletes RFC 2598.  [STANDARDS TRACK]






Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3245    Klensin, Ed.    Mar 2002        The History and Context of
                                        Telephone Number Mapping
                                        (ENUM) Operational Decisions:
                                        Informational Documents
                                        Contributed to ITU-T Study
                                        Group 2 (SG2)

RFC 2916 assigned responsibility for a number of administrative and
operational details of Telephone Number Mapping (ENUM) to the IAB.  It
also anticipated that ITU would take responsibility for determining the
legitimacy and appropriateness of applicants for delegation of "country
code"-level subdomains of the top-level ENUM domain.  Recently, three
memos have been prepared for the ITU-T Study Group 2 (SG2) to explain
the background of, and reasoning for, the relevant decisions.  The IAB
has also supplied a set of procedural instructions to the RIPE NCC for
implementation of their part of the model.  The content of the three
memos is provided in this document for the information of the IETF
community.


3244    Swift           Feb 2002        Microsoft Windows 2000
                                        Kerberos Change Password and
                                        Set Password Protocols

This memo specifies Microsoft's Windows 2000 Kerberos change password
and set password protocols.  The Windows 2000 Kerberos change password
protocol interoperates with the original Kerberos change password
protocol.  Change password is a request reply protocol that includes a
KRB_PRIV message that contains the new password for the user.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3243    Jonsson         Apr 2002        RObust Header Compression
                                        (ROHC): Requirements and
                                        Assumptions for 0-byte
                                        IP/UDP/RTP Compression

This document contains requirements for the 0-byte IP/UDP/RTP (Internet
Protocol/User Datagram Protocol/Real-Time Transport Protocol) header
compression scheme to be developed by the Robust Header Compression
(ROHC) Working Group.  It also includes the basic assumptions for the
typical link layers over which 0-byte compression may be implemented,
and assumptions about its usage in general.








Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3242    Jonsson         Apr 2002        RObust Header Compression
                                        (ROHC): A Link-Layer Assisted
                                        Profile for IP/UDP/RTP

This document defines a ROHC (Robust Header Compression) profile for
compression of IP/UDP/RTP (Internet Protocol/User Datagram
Protocol/Real-Time Transport Protocol) packets, utilizing functionality
provided by the lower layers to increase compression efficiency by
completely eliminating the header for most packets during optimal
operation.  The profile is built as an extension to the ROHC RTP
profile.  It defines additional mechanisms needed in ROHC, states
requirements on the assisting layer to guarantee transparency, and
specifies general logic for compression and decompression making use of
this header-free packet.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3241    Bormann         Apr 2002        Robust Header Compression
                                        (ROHC) over PPP

This document describes an option for negotiating the use of robust
header compression (ROHC) on IP datagrams transmitted over the Point-
to-Point Protocol (PPP).  It defines extensions to the PPP Control
Protocols for IPv4 and IPv6.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3240    Clunie          Feb 2002        Digital Imaging and
                                        Communications in Medicine
                                        (DICOM) - Application/dicom
                                        MIME Sub-type Registration

This document describes the registration of the MIME sub-type
application/dicom (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine).  The
baseline encoding is defined by the DICOM Standards Committee in
"Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine".  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.
















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3239    Kugler          Feb 2002        Internet Printing Protocol
                                        (IPP): Requirements for Job,
                                        Printer, and Device
                                        Administrative Operations

This document specifies the requirements and uses cases for some
optional administrative operations for use with the Internet Printing
Protocol (IPP) version 1.0 and version 1.1.  Some of these
administrative operations operate on the IPP Job and Printer objects.
The remaining operations operate on a new Device object that more
closely models a single output device.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


3238    IAB             Jan 2002        IAB Architectural and Policy
                                        Considerations for Open
                                        Pluggable Edge Services

This document includes comments and recommendations by the IAB on some
architectural and policy issues related to the chartering of Open
Pluggable Edge Services (OPES) in the IETF.  OPES are services that
would be deployed at application-level intermediaries in the network,
for example, at a web proxy cache between the origin server and the
client.  These intermediaries would transform or filter content, with
the explicit consent of either the content provider or the end user.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3237    Tuexen          Jan 2002        Requirements for Reliable
                                        Server Pooling

This document defines a basic set of requirements for reliable server
pooling.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3236    Baker           Feb 2002        The 'application/xhtml+xml'
                                        Media Type

This document defines the 'application/xhtml+xml' MIME media type for
XHTML based markup languages; it is not intended to obsolete any
previous IETF documents, in particular RFC 2854 which registers
'text/html'.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.









Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3235    Senie           Jan 2002        Network Address Translator
                                        (NAT)-Friendly Application
                                        Design Guidelines


This document discusses those things that application designers might
wish to consider when designing new protocols.  While many common
Internet applications will operate cleanly in the presence of Network
Address Translators, others suffer from a variety of problems when
crossing these devices.  Guidelines are presented herein to help ensure
new protocols and applications will, to the extent possible, be
compatible with NAT (Network Address Translation).  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3234    Carpenter       Feb 2002        Middleboxes: Taxonomy and
                                        Issues

This document is intended as part of an IETF discussion about
"middleboxes" - defined as any intermediary box performing functions
apart from normal, standard functions of an IP router on the data path
between a source host and destination host.  This document establishes a
catalogue or taxonomy of middleboxes, cites previous and current IETF
work concerning middleboxes, and attempts to identify some preliminary
conclusions.  It does not, however, claim to be definitive.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3233    Hoffman         Feb 2002        Defining the IETF

This document gives a more concrete definition of "the IETF" as it
understood today.  Many RFCs refer to "the IETF".  Many important IETF
documents speak of the IETF as if it were an already-defined entity.
However, no IETF document correctly defines what the IETF is.  This
document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet
Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


3232    Reynolds        Jan 2002        Assigned Numbers: RFC 1700 is
                                        Replaced by an On-line Database

This memo obsoletes RFC 1700 (STD 2) "Assigned Numbers", which contained
an October 1994 snapshot of assigned Internet protocol parameters.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3231    Levi            Jan 2002        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Scheduling Management
                                        Operations

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes a set of managed objects that are used to
schedule management operations periodically or at specified dates and
times.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3230    Mogul           Jan 2002        Instance Digests in HTTP

HTTP/1.1 defines a Content-MD5 header that allows a server to include a
digest of the response body.  However, this is specifically defined to
cover the body of the actual message, not the contents of the full file
(which might be quite different, if the response is a Content-Range, or
uses a delta encoding).  Also, the Content-MD5 is limited to one
specific digest algorithm; other algorithms, such as SHA-1 (Secure Hash
Standard), may be more appropriate in some circumstances.  Finally,
HTTP/1.1 provides no explicit mechanism by which a client may request a
digest.  This document proposes HTTP extensions that solve these
problems.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3229    Mogul           Jan 2002        Delta encoding in HTTP

This document describes how delta encoding can be supported as a
compatible extension to HTTP/1.1.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3228    Fenner          Feb 2002        IANA Considerations for IPv4
                                        Internet Group Management
                                        Protocol (IGMP)

This memo requests that the IANA create a registry for fields in the
IGMP (Internet Group Management Protocol) protocol header, and provides
guidance for the IANA to use in assigning parameters for those fields.
This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the
Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.










Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3227    Brezinski       Feb 2002        Guidelines for Evidence
                                        Collection and Archiving

A "security incident" as defined in the "Internet Security Glossary",
RFC 2828, is a security-relevant system event in which the system's
security policy is disobeyed or otherwise breached.  The purpose of this
document is to provide System Administrators with guidelines on the
collection and archiving of evidence relevant to such a security
incident.  This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices
for the Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.


3226    Gudmundsson     Dec 2001        DNSSEC and IPv6 A6 aware
                                        server/resolver message size
                                        requirements

This document mandates support for EDNS0 (Extension Mechanisms for DNS)
in DNS entities claiming to support either DNS Security Extensions or A6
records.  This requirement is necessary because these new features
increase the size of DNS messages.  If EDNS0 is not supported fall back
to TCP will happen, having a detrimental impact on query latency and DNS
server load.  This document updates RFC 2535 and RFC 2874, by adding new
requirements.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3225    Conrad          Dec 2001        Indicating Resolver Support of
                                        DNSSEC

In order to deploy DNSSEC (Domain Name System Security Extensions)
operationally, DNSSEC aware servers should only perform automatic
inclusion of DNSSEC RRs when there is an explicit indication that the
resolver can understand those RRs.  This document proposes the use of a
bit in the EDNS0 header to provide that explicit indication and
describes the necessary protocol changes to implement that notification.
[STANDARDS TRACK]















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 22]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3224    Guttman         Jan 2002        Vendor Extensions for Service
                                        Location Protocol, Version 2

This document specifies how the features of the Service Location
Protocol, Version 2 allow for vendor extensibility safely, with no
possibility of collisions.  The specification introduces a new SLPv2
extension:  The Vendor Opaque Extension.  While proprietary protocol
extensions are not encouraged by IETF standards, it is important that
they not hinder interoperability of compliant implementations when they
are undertaken.  This document udpates RFC 2608, "The Service Location
Protocol."  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3223                                    Never Issued

RFC 3223 was never issued.


3222    Trotter         Dec 2001        Terminology for Forwarding
                                        Information Base (FIB) based
                                        Router Performance

This document describes the terms to be used in a methodology that
determines the IP packet forwarding performance of IP routers as a
function of the forwarding information base installed within a router.
The forwarding performance of an IP router may be dependent upon or may
be linked to the composition and size of the forwarding information base
installed within a router.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3221    Huston          Dec 2001        Commentary on Inter-Domain
                                        Routing in the Internet

This document examines the various longer term trends visible within the
characteristics of the Internet's BGP table and identifies a number of
operational practices and protocol factors that contribute to these
trends.  The potential impacts of these practices and protocol
properties on the scaling properties of the inter-domain routing space
are examined.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.










Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 23]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3220    Perkins         Jan 2002        IP Mobility Support for IPv4

This document specifies protocol enhancements that allow transparent
routing of IP datagrams to mobile nodes in the Internet.  Each mobile
node is always identified by its home address, regardless of its current
point of attachment to the Internet.  While situated away from its home,
a mobile node is also associated with a care-of address, which provides
information about its current point of attachment to the Internet.  The
protocol provides for registering the care-of address with a home agent.
The home agent sends datagrams destined for the mobile node through a
tunnel to the care-of address.  After arriving at the end of the tunnel,
each datagram is then delivered to the mobile node.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3219    Rosenberg       Jan 2002        Telephony Routing over IP
                                        (TRIP)

This document presents the Telephony Routing over IP (TRIP).  TRIP is a
policy driven inter-administrative domain protocol for advertising the
reachability of telephony destinations between location servers, and for
advertising attributes of the routes to those destinations.  TRIP's
operation is independent of any signaling protocol, hence TRIP can serve
as the telephony routing protocol for any signaling protocol.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3218    Rescorla        Jan 2002        Preventing the Million Message
                                        Attack on Cryptographic
                                        Message Syntax


This memo describes a strategy for resisting the Million Message Attack.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3217    Housley         Dec 2001        Triple-DES and RC2 Key
                                        Wrapping

This document specifies the algorithm for wrapping one Triple-DES key
with another Triple-DES key and the algorithm for wrapping one RC2 key
with another RC2 key.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.









Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 24]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3216    Elliott         Dec 2001        SMIng Objectives

This document describes the objectives for a new data definition
language, suitable for the modeling of network management constructs,
that can be directly mapped into SNMP and COPS-PR protocol operations.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3215    Boscher         Jan 2002        LDP State Machine

This document provides state machine tables for ATM (Asynchronous
Transfer Mode) switch LSRs.  In the current LDP specification, there is
no state machine specified for processing LDP messages. We think that
defining a common state machine is very important for interoperability
between different LDP and CR-LDP implementations.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3214    Ash             Jan 2002        LSP Modification Using CR-LDP

This document presents an approach to modify the bandwidth and possibly
other parameters of an established CR-LSP (Constraint-based Routed Label
Switched Paths) using CR-LDP (Constraint-based Routed Label Distribution
Protocol) without service interruption.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3213    Ash             Jan 2002        Applicability Statement for
                                        CR-LDP

This document discusses the applicability of Constraint-Based LSP Setup
using LDP.  It discusses possible network applications, extensions to
Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) required to implement constraint-based
routing, guidelines for deployment and known limitations of the
protocol.  This document is a prerequisite to advancing CR-LDP on the
standards track.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3212    Jamoussi        Jan 2002        Constraint-Based LSP Setup
                                        using LDP

This document specifies mechanisms and TLVs (Type/Length/Value) for
support of CR-LSPs (constraint-based routed Label Switched Path) using
LDP (Label Distribution Protocol).  [STANDARDS TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 25]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3211    Gutmann         Dec 2001        Password-based Encryption for
                                        CMS

This document provides a method of encrypting data using user-supplied
passwords and, by extension, any form of variable-length keying material
which is not necessarily an algorithm-specific fixed-format key.  The
Cryptographic Message Syntax data format does not currently contain any
provisions for password-based data encryption.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3210    Awduche         Dec 2001        Applicability Statement for
                                        Extensions to RSVP for
                                        LSP-Tunnels

This memo discusses the applicability of "Extensions to RSVP (Resource
ReSerVation Protocol) for LSP Tunnels".  It highlights the protocol's
principles of operation and describes the network context for which it
was designed.  Guidelines for deployment are offered and known protocol
limitations are indicated.  This document is intended to accompany the
submission of "Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" onto the Internet
standards track.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3209    Awduche         Dec 2001        RSVP-TE: Extensions to RSVP
                                        for LSP Tunnels

This document describes the use of RSVP (Resource Reservation Protocol),
including all the necessary extensions, to establish label-switched
paths (LSPs) in MPLS (Multi-Protocol Label Switching).  Since the flow
along an LSP is completely identified by the label applied at the
ingress node of the path, these paths may be treated as tunnels.  A key
application of LSP tunnels is traffic engineering with MPLS as specified
in RFC 2702.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 26]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3208    Speakman        Dec 2001        PGM Reliable Transport
                                        Protocol Specification

Pragmatic General Multicast (PGM) is a reliable multicast transport
protocol for applications that require ordered or unordered, duplicate-
free, multicast data delivery from multiple sources to multiple
receivers.  PGM guarantees that a receiver in the group either receives
all data packets from transmissions and repairs, or is able to detect
unrecoverable data packet loss.  PGM is specifically intended as a
workable solution for multicast applications with basic reliability
requirements.  Its central design goal is simplicity of operation with
due regard for scalability and network efficiency.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3207    Hoffman         Feb 2002        SMTP Service Extension for
                                        Secure SMTP over Transport
                                        Layer Security

This document describes an extension to the SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer
Protocol) service that allows an SMTP server and client to use TLS
(Transport Layer Security) to provide private, authenticated
communication over the Internet.  This gives SMTP agents the ability to
protect some or all of their communications from eavesdroppers and
attackers.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3206    Gellens         Feb 2002        The SYS and AUTH POP Response
                                        Codes


This memo proposes two response codes: SYS and AUTH, which enable
clients to unambiguously determine an optimal response to an
authentication failure.  In addition, a new capability (AUTH-RESP-CODE)
is defined.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3205    Moore           Feb 2002        On the use of HTTP as a
                                        Substrate

Recently there has been widespread interest in using Hypertext Transfer
Protocol (HTTP) as a substrate for other applications-level protocols.
This document recommends technical particulars of such use, including
use of default ports, URL schemes, and HTTP security mechanisms.  This
document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet
Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.





Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 27]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


3204    Zimmerer        Dec 2001        MIME media types for ISUP and
                                        QSIG Objects

This document describes MIME types for application/ISUP and
application/QSIG objects for use in SIP applications, according to the
rules defined in RFC 2048.  These types can be used to identify ISUP and
QSIG objects within a SIP message such as INVITE or INFO, as might be
implemented when using SIP in an environment where part of the call
involves interworking to the PSTN.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3203    T'Joens         Dec 2001        DHCP reconfigure extension

This document defines extensions to DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocol) to allow dynamic reconfiguration of a single host triggered by
the DHCP server (e.g., a new IP address and/or local configuration
parameters).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3202    Steinberger     Jan 2002        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Frame Relay Service Level
                                        Definitions

This memo defines an extension of the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the Frame Relay Service
Level Definitions.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3201    Steinberger     Jan 2002        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Circuit to Interface
                                        Translation

This memo defines an extension of the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the insertion of interesting
Circuit Interfaces into the ifTable.  This is important for circuits
that must be used within other MIB modules which require an ifEntry.  It
allows for integrated monitoring of circuits as well as routing to
circuits using unaltered, pre-existing MIB modules.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3200                                    Never Issued

RFC 3200 was never issued.






Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 28]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Sandy Ginoza
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511
   EMail: ginoza@isi.edu





































Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 29]

RFC 3299                  Summary of 3200-3299             December 2003


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 30]

