





Network Working Group                                          S. Ginoza
Request for Comments: 3199                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                    February 2003


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 3100-3199

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 3100
   through RFCs 3199.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----


3199    Ginoza          Feb 2003        Request for Comments Summary

This memo.













Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3198    Westerinen      Nov 2001        Terminology for Policy-Based
                                        Management

This document is a glossary of policy-related terms.  It provides
abbreviations, explanations, and recommendations for use of these terms.
The intent is to improve the comprehensibility and consistency of
writing that deals with network policy, particularly Internet Standards
documents (ISDs).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3197    Austein         Nov 2001        Applicability Statement for
                                        DNS MIB Extensions

This document explains why, after more than six years as proposed
standards, the DNS Server and Resolver MIB extensions were never
deployed, and recommends retiring these MIB extensions by moving them to
Historical status.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3196    Hastings        Nov 2001        Internet Printing
                                        Protocol/1.1: Implementor's
                                        Guide

This document is one of a set of documents, which together describe all
aspects of a new Internet Printing Protocol (IPP).  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3195    New             Nov 2001        Reliable Delivery for syslog

The BSD Syslog Protocol describes a number of service options related to
propagating event messages.  This memo describes two mappings of the
syslog protocol to TCP connections, both useful for reliable delivery of
event messages.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3194    Durand          Nov 2001        The Host-Density Ratio for
                                        Address Assignment Efficiency:
                                        An update on the H ratio

This document provides an update on the "H ratio" defined in RFC 1715.
It defines a new ratio which the authors claim is easier to understand.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.






Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3193    Patel           Nov 2001        Securing L2TP using IPsec

This document discusses how L2TP (Layer Two Tunneling Protocol) may
utilize IPsec to provide for tunnel authentication, privacy protection,
integrity checking and replay protection. Both the voluntary and
compulsory tunneling cases are discussed.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3192    Allocchio       Oct 2001        Minimal FAX address format in
                                        Internet Mail

This memo describes a simple method of encoding Global Switched
Telephone Network (GSTN) addresses of facsimile devices in the local-
part of Internet email addresses.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3191    Allocchio       Oct 2001        Minimal GSTN address format in
                                        Internet Mail

This memo describes a simple method of encoding Global Switched
Telephone Network (GSTN) addresses (commonly called "telephone numbers")
in the local-part of Internet email addresses, along with an extension
mechanism to allow encoding of additional standard attributes needed for
email gateways to GSTN-based services.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3190    Kobayashi       Jan 2002        RTP Payload Format for 12-bit
                                        DAT Audio and 20- and 24-bit
                                        Linear Sampled Audio

This document specifies a packetization scheme for encapsulating 12-bit
nonlinear, 20-bit linear, and 24-bit linear audio data streams using the
Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP).  This document also specifies the
format of a Session Description Protocol (SDP) parameter to indicate
when audio data is preemphasized before sampling.  The parameter may be
used with other audio payload formats, in particular L16 (16-bit
linear).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3189    Kobayashi       Jan 2002        RTP Payload Format for DV
                                        (IEC 61834) Video

This document specifies the packetization scheme for encapsulating the
compressed digital video data streams commonly known as "DV" into a
payload format for the Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP).  [STANDARDS
TRACK]





Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3188    Hakala          Oct 2001        Using National Bibliography
                                        Numbers as Uniform Resource
                                        Names

This document discusses how national bibliography numbers (persistent
and unique identifiers assigned by the national libraries) can be
supported within the URN (Uniform Resource Names) framework and the
syntax for URNs defined in RFC 2141.  Much of the discussion is based on
the ideas expressed in RFC 2288.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3187    Hakala          Oct 2001        Using International Standard
                                        Book Numbers as Uniform
                                        Resource Names

This document discusses how International Standard Book Numbers (ISBN)
can be supported within the URN (Uniform Resource Names) framework and
the syntax for URNs defined in RFC 2141.  Much of the discussion below
is based on the ideas expressed in RFC 2288.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3186    Shimizu         Dec 2001        MAPOS/PPP Tunneling mode

This document specifies tunneling configuration over MAPOS (Multiple
Access Protocol over SONET/SDH) networks.  Using this mode, a MAPOS
network can provide transparent point-to-point link for PPP over
SONET/SDH (Packet over SONET/SDH, POS) without any additional overhead.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3185    Farrell         Oct 2001        Reuse of CMS Content
                                        Encryption Keys

This document describes a way to include a key identifier in a CMS
(Cryptographic Message Syntax) enveloped data structure, so that the
content encryption key can be re-used for further enveloped data
packets.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3184    Harris          Oct 2001        IETF Guidelines for Conduct

This document provides a set of guidelines for personal interaction in
the Internet Engineering Task Force.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.




Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3183    Dean            Oct 2001        Domain Security Services using
                                        S/MIME

This document describes how the S/MIME (Secure/Multipurpose Internet
Mail Extensions) protocol can be processed and generated by a number of
components of a communication system, such as message transfer agents,
guards and gateways to deliver security services.  These services are
collectively referred to as 'Domain Security Services'.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3182    Yadav           Oct 2001        Identity Representation for
                                        RSVP

This document describes the representation of identity information in
POLICY_DATA object for supporting policy based admission control in the
Resource ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP).  The goal of identity
representation is to allow a process on a system to securely identify
the owner and the application of the communicating process (e.g., user
id) and convey this information in RSVP messages (PATH or RESV) in a
secure manner.  We describe the encoding of identities as RSVP policy
element.  We describe the processing rules to generate identity policy
elements for multicast merged flows.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3181    Herzog          Oct 2001        Signaled Preemption Priority
                                        Policy Element

This document describes a preemption priority policy element for use by
signaled policy based admission protocols (such as the Resource
ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP) and Common Open Policy Service (COPS).
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3180    Meyer           Sep 2001        GLOP Addressing in 233/8

This document defines the policy for the use of 233/8 for statically e
assigned multicast addresses.  This document specifies an Internet Best
Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion
and suggestions for improvements.











Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3179    Schoenwaelder   Oct 2001        Script MIB Extensibility
                                        Protocol Version 1.1

The Script MIB extensibility protocol (SMX) defined in this memo
separates language specific runtime systems from language independent
Script MIB implementations.  The IETF Script MIB defines an interface
for the delegation of management functions based on the Internet
management framework.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for
the Internet community.


3178    Hagino          Oct 2001        IPv6 Multihoming Support at
                                        Site Exit Routers

The document describes a mechanism for basic IPv6 multihoming support,
and its operational requirements.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


3177    IAB             Sep 2001        IAB/IESG Recommendations on
                                        IPv6 Address Allocations to
                                        Sites

This document provides recommendations to the addressing registries
(APNIC, ARIN and RIPE-NCC) on policies for assigning IPv6 address blocks
to end sites.  In particular, it recommends the assignment of /48 in the
general case, /64 when it is known that one and only one subnet is
needed and /128 when it is absolutely known that one and only one device
is connecting.


3176    Phaal           Sep 2001        InMon Corporation's sFlow: A
                                        Method for Monitoring Traffic
                                        in Switched and Routed Networks

This memo defines InMon Corporation's sFlow system.  sFlow is a
technology for monitoring traffic in data networks containing switches
and routers.  In particular, it defines the sampling mechanisms
implemented in an sFlow Agent for monitoring traffic, the sFlow MIB for
controlling the sFlow Agent, and the format of sample data used by the
sFlow Agent when forwarding data to a central data collector.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.









Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3175    Baker           Sep 2001        Aggregation of RSVP for IPv4
                                        and IPv6 Reservations

This document describes the use of a single RSVP (Resource ReSerVation
Protocol) reservation to aggregate other RSVP reservations across a
transit routing region, in a manner conceptually similar to the use of
Virtual Paths in an ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode) network.  It
proposes a way to dynamically create the aggregate reservation, classify
the traffic for which the aggregate reservation applies, determine how
much bandwidth is needed to achieve the requirement, and recover the
bandwidth when the sub-reservations are no longer required.  It also
contains recommendations concerning algorithms and policies for
predictive reservations.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3174    Eastlake        Sep 2001        US Secure Hash Algorithm 1
                                        (SHA1)

The purpose of this document is to make the SHA-1 (Secure Hash Algorithm
1) hash algorithm conveniently available to the Internet community.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3173    Shacham         Sep 2001        IP Payload Compression
                                        Protocol (IPComp)

This document describes a protocol intended to provide lossless
compression for Internet Protocol datagrams in an Internet environment.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3172    Huston          Sep 2001        Management Guidelines &
                                        Operational Requirements for
                                        the Address and Routing
                                        Parameter Area Domain ("arpa")

This memo describes the management and operational requirements for the
address and routing parameter area ("arpa") domain.  This document
specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community,
and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.











Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3171    Albanna         Aug 2001        IANA Guidelines for IPv4
                                        Multicast Address Assignments

This memo provides guidance for the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
(IANA) in assigning IPv4 multicast addresses.  This document specifies
an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and
requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


3170    Quinn           Sep 2001        IP Multicast Applications:
                                        Challenges and Solutions

This document describes the challenges involved with designing and
implementing multicast applications.  It is an introductory guide for
application developers that highlights the unique considerations of
multicast applications as compared to unicast applications.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3169    Beadles         Sep 2001        Criteria for Evaluating
                                        Network Access Server
                                        Protocols

This document defines requirements for protocols used by Network Access
Servers (NAS).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3168    Ramakrishnan    Sep 2001        The Addition of Explicit
                                        Congestion Notification (ECN)
                                        to IP

This memo specifies the incorporation of ECN (Explicit Congestion
Notification) to TCP and IP, including ECN's use of two bits in the IP
header.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3167    Meyer           Aug 2001        Request to Move RFC 1745 to
                                        Historic Status

RFC 1745, "BGP4/IDRP for IP---OSPF Interaction", describes technology
which was never deployed in the public internet.  This document requests
that RFC 1745 be moved to Historic status.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.







Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3166    Meyer           Aug 2001        Request to Move RFC 1403 to
                                        Historic Status

RFC 1403, "BGP OSPF Interaction", describes technology which is no
longer used.  This document requests that RFC 1403 be moved to Historic
status.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3165    Levi            Aug 2001        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for the Delegation of
                                        Management Scripts

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes a set of managed objects that allow the
delegation of management scripts to distributed managers.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3164    Lonvick         Aug 2001        The BSD syslog Protocol

This document describes the observed behavior of the syslog protocol.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3163    Zuccherato      Aug 2001        ISO/IEC 9798-3 Authentication
                                        SASL Mechanism

This document defines a SASL (Simple Authentication and Security Layer)
authentication mechanism based on ISO/IEC 9798-3 and FIPS PUB 196 entity
authentication.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the
Internet community.


3162    Aboba           Aug 2001        RADIUS and IPv6

This document specifies the operation of RADIUS (Remote Authentication
Dial In User Service) when run over IPv6 as well as the RADIUS
attributes used to support IPv6 network access.  [STANDARDS TRACK]












Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3161    Adams           Aug 2001        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Time-Stamp
                                        Protocol (TSP)

This document describes the format of a request sent to a Time Stamping
Authority (TSA) and of the response that is returned.  It also
establishes several security-relevant requirements for TSA operation,
with regards to processing requests to generate responses.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3160    Harris          Aug 2001        The Tao of IETF - A Novice's
                                        Guide to the Internet
                                        Engineering Task Force

This document describes the inner workings of IETF meetings and Working
Groups, discusses organizations related to the IETF, and introduces the
standards process.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3159    McCloghrie      Aug 2001        Structure of Policy
                                        Provisioning Information
                                        (SPPI)

This document, the Structure of Policy Provisioning Information (SPPI),
defines the adapted subset of SNMP's Structure of Management Information
(SMI) used to write Policy Information Base (PIB) modules.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3158    Perkins         Aug 2001        RTP Testing Strategies

This memo describes a possible testing strategy for RTP (real-time
transport protocol) implementations.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


3157    Arsenault       Aug 2001        Securely Available Credentials
                                        - Requirements

This document describes requirements to be placed on Securely Available
Credentials (SACRED) protocols.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3156    Elkins          Aug 2001        MIME Security with OpenPGP

This document describes how the OpenPGP Message Format can be used to
provide privacy and authentication using the Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extensions (MIME) security content types described in RFC 1847.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3155    Dawkins         Aug 2001        End-to-end Performance
                                        Implications of Links with
                                        Errors

This document discusses the specific TCP mechanisms that are problematic
in environments with high uncorrected error rates, and discusses what
can be done to mitigate the problems without introducing intermediate
devices into the connection.  This document specifies an Internet Best
Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion
and suggestions for improvements.


3154    Kempf           Aug 2001        Requirements and Functional
                                        Architecture for an IP Host
                                        Alerting Protocol

This document develops an architecture and a set of requirements needed
to support alerting of hosts that are in dormant mode.  The architecture
and requirements are designed to guide development of an IP protocol for
alerting dormant IP mobile hosts, commonly called paging.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3153    Pazhyannur      Aug 2001        PPP Multiplexing

This document describes a method to reduce the PPP (Point-to-Point
Protocol) framing overhead used to transport small packets over slow
links.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3152    Bush            Aug 2001        Delegation of IP6.ARPA

This document discusses the need for delegation of the IP6.ARPA DNS
zone, and specifies a plan for the technical operation thereof.  This
document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet
Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3151    Walsh           Aug 2001        A URN Namespace for Public
                                        Identifiers

This document describes a URN (Uniform Resource Name) namespace that is
designed to allow Public Identifiers to be expressed in URI (Uniform
Resource Identifiers) syntax.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3150    Dawkins         Jul 2001        End-to-end Performance
                                        Implications of Slow Links

This document makes performance-related recommendations for users of
network paths that traverse "very low bit-rate" links.  This document
specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community,
and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.


3149    Srinath         Sep 2001        MGCP Business Phone Packages

This document describes a collection of MGCP (Media Gateway Control
Protocol) packages that can be used to take advantage of the feature
keys and displays on digital business phones and IP-Phones.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3148    Mathis          Jul 2001        A Framework for Defining
                                        Empirical Bulk Transfer
                                        Capacity Metrics

This document defines a framework for standardizing multiple BTC (Bulk
Transport Capacity) metrics that parallel the permitted transport
diversity.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3147    Christian       Jul 2001        Generic Routing Encapsulation
                                        over CLNS Networks

This document proposes a method for transporting an arbitrary protocol
over a CLNS (Connectionless Network Service) network using GRE (Generic
Routing Encapsulation).  This may then be used as a method to tunnel
IPv4 or IPv6 over CLNS.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.








Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3146    Fujisawa        Oct 2001        Transmission of IPv6 Packets
                                        over IEEE 1394 Networks


This document describes the frame format for transmission of IPv6
packets and the method of forming IPv6 link-local addresses and
statelessly autoconfigured addresses on IEEE1394 networks.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3145    Verma           Jul 2001        L2TP Disconnect Cause
                                        Information

This document provides an extension to the Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol
("L2TP"), a mechanism for tunneling Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)
sessions.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3144    Romascanu       Aug 2001        Remote Monitoring MIB
                                        Extensions for Interface
                                        Parameters Monitoring

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  The
document proposes an extension to the Remote Monitoring MIB with a
method of sorting the interfaces of a monitored device according to
values of parameters specific to this interface.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3143    Cooper          Jun 2001        Known HTTP Proxy/Caching
                                        Problems

This document catalogs a number of known problems with World Wide Web
(WWW) (caching) proxies and cache servers.  The goal of the document is
to provide a discussion of the problems and proposed workarounds, and
ultimately to improve conditions by illustrating problems.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3142    Hagino          Jun 2001        An IPv6-to-IPv4 Transport
                                        Relay Translator

The document describes an IPv6-to-IPv4 transport relay translator (TRT).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.







Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3141    Hiller          Jun 2001        CDMA2000 Wireless Data
                                        Requirements for AAA

This memo specifies cdma2000 wireless data AAA (Authentication,
Authorization, Accounting) requirements associated with third generation
wireless architecture that supports roaming among service providers for
traditional PPP and Mobile IP services.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


3140    Black           Jun 2001        Per Hop Behavior
                                        Identification Codes

This document defines a 16 bit encoding mechanism for the identification
of differentiated services Per Hop Behaviors in protocol messages.  It
replaces RFC 2836.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3139    Sanchez         Jun 2001        Requirements for Configuration
                                        Management of IP-based
                                        Networks

This memo discusses different approaches to configure networks and
identifies a set of configuration management requirements for IP-based
networks.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3138    Meyer           Jun 2001        Extended Assignments in 233/8

This memo provides describes the mapping of the GLOP addresses
corresponding to the private AS space.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.


3137    Retana          Jun 2001        OSPF Stub Router Advertisement

This memo describes a backward-compatible technique that may be used by
OSPF (Open Shortest Path First) implementations to advertise
unavailability to forward transit traffic or to lower the preference
level for the paths through such a router.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.










Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3136    Slutsman        Jun 2001        The SPIRITS Architecture

This document describes the architecture for supporting SPIRITS
services, which are those originating in the PSTN (Public Switched
Telephone Network)and necessitating the interactions between the PSTN
and the Internet.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3135    Border          Jun 2001        Performance Enhancing Proxies
                                        Intended to Mitigate
                                        Link-Related Degradations


This document is a survey of Performance Enhancing Proxies (PEPs) often
employed to improve degraded TCP performance caused by characteristics
of specific link environments, for example, in satellite, wireless WAN,
and wireless LAN environments.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3134    Dunn            Jun 2001        Terminology for ATM ABR
                                        Benchmarking

This memo discusses and defines terms associated with performance
benchmarking tests and the results of these tests in the context of
Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) based switching devices supporting ABR
(Available Bit Rate).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3133    Dunn            Jun 2001        Terminology for Frame Relay
                                        Benchmarking

This memo discusses and defines terms associated with performance
benchmarking tests and the results of these tests in the context of
frame relay switching devices.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.













Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3132    Kempf           Jun 2001        Dormant Mode Host Alerting
                                        ("IP Paging") Problem
                                        Statement

This memo describes paging, assesses the need for IP paging, and
presents a list of recommendations for Seamoby charter items regarding
work on paging.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3131    Bradner         Jun 2001        3GPP2-IETF Standardization
                                        Collaboration

This document describes the standardization collaboration between 3GPP2
and IETF.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3130    Lewis           Jun 2001        Notes from the
                                        State-Of-The-Technology:
                                        DNSSEC

This is a memo of a DNSSEC (Domain Name System Security Extensions)
status meeting.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3129    Thomas          Jun 2001        Requirements for Kerberized
                                        Internet Negotiation of Keys

The goal of this document is to produce a streamlined, fast, easily
managed, and cryptographically sound protocol without requiring public
key.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3128    Miller          Jun 2001        Protection Against a Variant
                                        of the Tiny Fragment Attack

This document discusses how RFC 1858 compliant filters can be vulnerable
to a variant of the "Tiny Fragment Attack" described in section 3.1 of
the RFC.  This document describes the attack and recommends corrective
action.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.










Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3127    Mitton          Jun 2001        Authentication, Authorization,
                                        and Accounting: Protocol
                                        Evaluation

This memo represents the process and findings of the Authentication,
Authorization, and Accounting Working Group (AAA WG) panel evaluating
protocols proposed against the AAA Network Access Requirements, RFC
2989.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3126    Pinkas          Sep 2001        Electronic Signature Formats
                                        for long term electronic
                                        signatures

This document defines the format of an electronic signature that can
remain valid over long periods.  This includes evidence as to its
validity even if the signer or verifying party later attempts to deny
(i.e., repudiates the validity of the signature).  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3125    Ross            Sep 2001        Electronic Signature Policies

This document defines signature policies for electronic signatures.  A
signature policy is a set of rules for the creation and validation of an
electronic signature, under which the validity of signature can be
determined.  A given legal/contractual context may recognize a
particular signature policy as meeting its requirements.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3124    Balakrishnan    Jun 2001        The Congestion Manager

This document describes the Congestion Manager (CM), an end-system
module that enables an ensemble of multiple concurrent streams from a
sender destined to the same receiver and sharing the same congestion
properties to perform proper congestion avoidance and control, and
allows applications to easily adapt to network congestion.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]












Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3123    Koch            Jun 2001        A DNS RR Type for Lists of
                                        Address Prefixes (APL RR)

The Domain Name System (DNS) is primarily used to translate domain names
into IPv4 addresses using A RRs (Resource Records).  Several approaches
exist to describe networks or address ranges.  This document specifies a
new DNS RR type "APL" for address prefix lists.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3122    Conta           Jun 2001        Extensions to IPv6 Neighbor
                                        Discovery for Inverse
                                        Discovery Specification

This memo describes extensions to the IPv6 Neighbor Discovery that allow
a node to determine and advertise an IPv6 address corresponding to a
given link-layer address.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3121    Best            Jun 2001        A URN Namespace for OASIS

This document describes a URN (Uniform Resource Name) namespace that is
engineered by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured
Information Standards (OASIS) for naming persistent resources published
by OASIS (such as OASIS Standards, XML (Extensible Markup Language)
Document Type Definitions, XML Schemas, Namespaces, Stylesheets, and
other documents).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3120    Best            Jun 2001        A URN Namespace for XML.org

This document describes a URN (Uniform Resource Name) namespace that is
engineered by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured
Information Standards (OASIS) for naming persistent resources stored in
the XML.org repository (such as XML (Extensible Markup Language)
Document Type Definitions, XML Schemas, Namespaces, Stylesheets, and
other documents).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.












Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3119    Finlayson       Jun 2001        A More Loss-Tolerant RTP
                                        Payload Format for MP3 Audio

This document describes a RTP (Real-Time Protocol) payload format for
transporting MPEG (Moving Picture Experts Group) 1 or 2, layer III audio
(commonly known as "MP3").  This format is an alternative to that
described in RFC 2250, and performs better if there is packet loss.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3118    Droms           Jun 2001        Authentication for DHCP
                                        Messages


This document defines a new Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
option through which authorization tickets can be easily generated and
newly attached hosts with proper authorization can be automatically
configured from an authenticated DHCP server.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3117    Rose            Nov 2001        On the Design of Application
                                        Protocols

This memo describes the design principles for the Blocks eXtensible
eXchange Protocol (BXXP).  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3116    Dunn    Jun 2001        Methodology for ATM Benchmarking

This document discusses and defines a number of tests that may be used
to describe the performance characteristics of ATM (Asynchronous
Transfer Mode) based switching devices.  In addition to defining the
tests this document also describes specific formats for reporting the
results of the tests.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3115    Dommety         Apr 2001        Mobile IP
                                        Vendor/Organization-Specific
                                        Extensions

This document defines two new extensions to Mobile IP.  These extensions
will facilitate equipment vendors and organizations to make specific use
of these extensions as they see fit for research or deployment purposes.
[STANDARDS TRACK]





Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3114    Nicolls         May 2002        Implementing Company
                                        Classification Policy with the
                                        S/MIME Security Label

This document discusses how company security policy for data
classification can be mapped to the S/MIME security label.  Actual
policies from three companies provide worked examples.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3113    Rosenbrock      Jun 2001        3GPP-IETF Standardization
                                        Collaboration

This document describes the standardization collaboration between 3GPP
and IETF.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3112    Zeilenga        May 2001        LDAP Authentication Password
                                        Schema

This document describes schema in support of user/password
authentication in a LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol)
directory including the authPassword attribute type.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3111    Guttman         May 2001        Service Location Protocol
                                        Modifications for IPv6

This document defines the Service Location Protocol Version 2's (SLPv2)
use over IPv6 networks.  Since this protocol relies on UDP and TCP, the
changes to support its use over IPv6 are minor.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3110    Eastlake 3rd    May 2001        RSA/SHA-1 SIGs and RSA KEYs in
                                        the Domain Name System (DNS)

This document describes how to produce RSA/SHA1 SIG resource records
(RRs) in Section 3 and, so as to completely replace RFC 2537, describes
how to produce RSA KEY RRs in Section 2.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

3109    Braden          May 2001        Request to Move STD 39 to
                                        Historic Status

This memo changes the status of STD 39, BBN Report 1822, "Specification
of the Interconnection of a Host and an IMP", from Standard to Historic.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.




Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3108    Kumar           May 2001        Conventions for the use of the
                                        Session Description Protocol
                                        (SDP) for ATM Bearer
                                        Connections

This document describes conventions for using the Session Description
Protocol (SDP) described in RFC 2327 for controlling ATM Bearer
Connections, and any associated ATM Adaptation Layer (AAL).  The AALs
addressed are Type 1, Type 2 and Type 5.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3107    Rekhter         May 2001        Carrying Label Information in
                                        BGP-4

This document specifies the way in which the label mapping information
for a particular route is piggybacked in the same Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP) Update message that is used to distribute the route
itself.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3106    Eastlake        Apr 2001        ECML v1.1: Field
                                        Specifications for E-Commerce


Customers are frequently required to enter substantial amounts of
information at an Internet merchant site in order to complete a purchase
or other transaction, especially the first time they go there.  A
standard set of information fields is defined as the first version of an
Electronic Commerce Modeling Language (ECML) so that this task can be
more easily automated, for example by wallet software that could fill in
fields.  Even for the manual data entry case, customers will be less
confused by varying merchant sites if a substantial number adopt these
standard fields.  In addition, some fields are defined for merchant to
consumer communication.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3105    Kempf           Oct 2001        Finding an RSIP Server with
                                        SLP

This document contains an SLP service type template that describes the
advertisements made by RSIP servers for their services.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.








Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3104    Montenegro      Oct 2001        RSIP Support for End-to-end
                                        IPsec

This document proposes mechanisms that enable Realm Specific IP (RSIP)
to handle end-to-end IPsec (IP Security).  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3103    Borella         Oct 2001        Realm Specific IP: Protocol
                                        Specification

This document presents a protocol with which to implement Realm Specific
IP (RSIP).  The protocol defined herein allows negotiation of resources
between an RSIP host and gateway, so that the host can lease some of the
gateway's addressing parameters in order to establish a global network
presence.  This protocol is designed to operate on the application layer
and to use its own TCP or UDP port.  In particular, the protocol allows
a gateway to allocate addressing and control parameters to a host such
that a flow policy can be enforced at the gateway.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3102    Borella         Oct 2001        Realm Specific IP: Framework

This document examines the general framework of Realm Specific IP
(RSIP).  RSIP is intended as a alternative to NAT in which the end-to-
end integrity of packets is maintained.  We focus on implementation
issues, deployment scenarios, and interaction with other layer-three
protocols.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


3101    Murphy          Jan 2003        The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area
                                        (NSSA) Option

This memo documents an optional type of Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)
area that is somewhat humorously referred to as a "not-so-stubby" area
(or NSSA).  NSSAs are similar to the existing OSPF stub area
configuration option but have the additional capability of importing AS
external routes in a limited fashion.

The OSPF NSSA Option was originally defined in RFC 1587.  The functional
differences between this memo and RFC 1587 are explained in Appendix F.
All differences, while expanding capability, are backward-compatible in
nature.  Implementations of this memo and of RFC 1587 will interoperate.
[STANDARDS TRACK]





Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 22]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


3100                                    Never Issued

RFC 3100 was never issued.

Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Sandy Ginoza
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: ginoza@isi.edu
































Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 23]

RFC 3199                  Summary of 3100-3199             February 2003


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 24]

