





Network Working Group                                          S. Ginoza
Request for Comments: 3099                                           ISI
Category: Informational                                    November 2001


                      Request for Comments Summary

                         RFC Numbers 3000-3099

Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 3000
   through RFCs 3099.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author          Date            Title
---     ------          ----            -----

3099    Ginoza          Nov 2001        Request for Comments Summary

This memo.














Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3098    Gavin           Apr 2001        How to Advertise Responsibly
                                        Using E-Mail and Newsgroups or
                                        - how NOT to $$$$$  MAKE
                                        ENEMIES FAST!  $$$$$

This memo offers useful suggestions for responsible advertising
techniques that can be used via the internet in an environment where the
advertiser, recipients, and the Internet Community can coexist in a
productive and mutually respectful fashion.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3097    Braden          Apr 2001        RSVP Cryptographic
                                        Authentication -- Updated
                                        Message Type Value

This memo resolves a duplication in the assignment of RSVP Message
Types, by changing the Message Types assigned by RFC 2747 to Challenge
and Integrity Response messages.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3096    Degermark       Jul 2001        Requirements for robust
                                        IP/UDP/RTP header compression

This document contains requirements for robust IP/UDP/RTP (Internet
Protocol/User Datagram Protocol/Real-Time Transport Protocol) header
compression to be developed by the ROHC (Robust Header Compression) WG.
It is based on the ROHC charter, discussions in the WG, the 3GPP
document "3GPP TR 23.922", version 1.0.0 of October 1999, as well as
contributions from 3G.IP.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3095    Bormann         Jul 2001        RObust Header Compression
                                        (ROHC): Framework and four
                                        profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP, and
                                        uncompressed

This document specifies a highly robust and efficient header compression
scheme for RTP/UDP/IP (Real-Time Transport Protocol, User Datagram
Protocol, Internet Protocol), UDP/IP, and ESP/IP (Encapsulating Security
Payload) headers.  [STANDARDS TRACK]









Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3094    Sprague         Apr 2001        Tekelec's Transport Adapter
                                        Layer Interface

This document proposes the interfaces of a Signaling Gateway, which
provides interworking between the Switched Circuit Network (SCN) and an
IP network.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3093    Gaynor          1 Apr 2001      Firewall Enhancement Protocol
                                        (FEP)

Internet Transparency via the end-to-end architecture of the Internet
has allowed vast innovation of new technologies and services [1].
However, recent developments in Firewall technology have altered this
model and have been shown to inhibit innovation.  We propose the
Firewall Enhancement Protocol (FEP) to allow innovation, without
violating the security model of a Firewall.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3092    Eastlake        1 Apr 2001      Etymology of "Foo"

Approximately 212 RFCs so far, starting with RFC 269, contain the terms
`foo', `bar', or `foobar' as metasyntactic variables without any proper
explanation or definition.  This document rectifies that deficiency.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3091    Kennedy         1 Apr 2001      Pi Digit Generation Protocol

This memo defines a protocol to provide the Pi digit generation service
(PIgen) used between clients and servers on host computers.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3090    Lewis           Mar 2001        DNS Security Extension
                                        Clarification on Zone Status

The definition of a secured zone is presented, clarifying and updating
sections of RFC 2535.  RFC 2535 defines a zone to be secured based on a
per algorithm basis, e.g., a zone can be secured with RSA keys, and not
secured with DSA keys.  This document changes this to define a zone to
be secured or not secured regardless of the key algorithm used (or not
used).  To further simplify the determination of a zone's status,
"experimentally secure" status is deprecated.  [STANDARDS TRACK]






Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3089    Kitamura        Apr 2001        A SOCKS-based IPv6/IPv4
                                        Gateway Mechanism

This document describes a SOCKS-based IPv6/IPv4 gateway mechanism that
enables smooth heterogeneous communications between the IPv6 nodes and
IPv4 nodes.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3088    Zeilenga        Apr 2001        OpenLDAP Root Service An
                                        experimental LDAP referral
                                        service

The OpenLDAP Project is operating an experimental LDAP (Lightweight
Directory Access Protocol) referral service known as the "OpenLDAP Root
Service".  The automated system generates referrals based upon service
location information published in DNS SRV RRs (Domain Name System
location of services resource records).  This document describes this
service.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


3087    Campbell        Apr 2001        Control of Service Context
                                        using SIP Request-URI

This memo describes a useful way to conceptualize the use of the
standard SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) Request-URI (Uniform Resource
Identifier) that the authors and many members of the SIP community think
is suitable as a convention.  It does not define any new protocol with
respect to RFC 2543.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3086    Nichols         Apr 2001        Definition of Differentiated
                                        Services Per Domain Behaviors
                                        and Rules for their Specification

This document defines and discusses Per-Domain Behaviors in detail and
lays out the format and required content for contributions to the
Diffserv WG on PDBs and the procedure that will be applied for
individual PDB specifications to advance as WG products.  This format is
specified to expedite working group review of PDB submissions.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.









Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3085    Coates          Mar 2001        URN Namespace for NewsML
                                        Resources

This document describes a URN (Uniform Resource Name) namespace for
identifying NewsML NewsItems.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3084    Chan            Mar 2001        COPS Usage for Policy
                                        Provisioning (COPS-PR)

This document describes the use of the Common Open Policy Service (COPS)
protocol for support of policy provisioning (COPS-PR).  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3083    Woundy          Mar 2001        Baseline Privacy Interface
                                        Management Information Base
                                        for DOCSIS Compliant Cable
                                        Modems and Cable Modem
                                        Termination Systems

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines a basic set of managed objects for SNMP-based
(Simple Network Management Protocol) management of the Baseline Privacy
Interface (BPI), which provides data privacy for DOCSIS 1.0 (Data-Over-
Cable Service Interface Specifications) compliant Cable Modems and Cable
Modem Termination Systems.  This MIB is defined as an extension to the
DOCSIS Radio Frequency Interface MIB, RFC 2670.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3082    Kempf           Mar 2001        Notification and Subscription
                                        for SLP

The Service Location Protocol (SLP) provides mechanisms whereby service
agent clients can advertise and user agent clients can query for
services.  The design is very much demand-driven, so that user agents
only obtain service information when they specifically ask for it.
There exists another class of user agent applications, however, that
requires notification when a new service appears or disappears. In the
RFC 2608 design, these applications are forced to poll the network to
catch changes.  In this document, we describe a protocol for allowing
such clients to be notified when a change occurs, removing the need for
polling.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.




Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 5]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3081    Rose            Mar 2001        Mapping the BEEP Core onto TCP

This memo describes how a BEEP (Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol)
session is mapped onto a single TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)
connection.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3080    Rose            Mar 2001        The Blocks Extensible Exchange
                                        Protocol Core

This memo describes a generic application protocol kernel for
connection-oriented, asynchronous interactions called the BEEP (Blocks
Extensible Exchange Protocol) core.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3079    Zorn            Mar 2001        Deriving Keys for use with
                                        Microsoft Point-to-Point
                                        Encryption (MPPE)

This document describes the method used to derive initial MPPE session
keys from a variety of credential types.  It is expected that this memo
will be updated whenever Microsoft defines a new key derivation method
for MPPE, since its primary purpose is to provide an open, easily
accessible reference for third-parties wishing to interoperate with
Microsoft products.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3078    Pall            Mar 2001        Microsoft Point-To-Point
                                        Encryption (MPPE) Protocol


This document describes the use of the Microsoft Point to Point
Encryption (MPPE) to enhance the confidentiality of PPP-encapsulated
packets.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3077    Duros           Mar 2001        A Link-Layer Tunneling
                                        Mechanism for Unidirectional
                                        Links

This document describes a mechanism to emulate full bidirectional
connectivity between all nodes that are directly connected by a
unidirectional link.  [STANDARDS TRACK]







Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 6]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3076    Boyer           Mar 2001        Canonical XML Version 1.0

This specification describes a method for generating a physical
representation, the canonical form, of an XML document that accounts for
the permissible changes.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3075    Eastlake        Mar 2001        XML-Signature Syntax and
                                        Processing

This document specifies XML (Extensible Markup Language) digital
signature processing rules and syntax.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3074    Volz            Feb 2001        DHC Load Balancing Algorithm

This document proposes a method of algorithmic load balancing.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3073    Collins         Mar 2001        Portable Font Resource (PFR) -
                                        application/font-tdpfr MIME
                                        Sub-type Registration

This document describes the registration of the Multipurpose Internet
Mail Extensions (MIME) sub-type application/font-tdpfr.  The encoding is
defined by the PFR Specification.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


3072    Wildgrube       Mar 2001        Structured Data Exchange
                                        Format (SDXF)

This specification describes an all-purpose interchange format for use
as a file format or for net-working.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.














Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3071    Klensin         Feb 2001        Reflections on the DNS, RFC
                                        1591, and Categories of
                                        Domains

This document is being published primarily for historical context and
comparative purposes, essentially to document some thoughts about how
1591 might have been interpreted and adjusted by the Internet Assigned
Numbers Authority (IANA) and ICANN to better reflect today's world while
retaining characteristics and policies that have proven to be effective
in supporting Internet growth and stability.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3070    Rawat           Feb 2001        Layer Two Tunneling Protocol
                                        (L2TP) over Frame Relay

This document describes how L2TP is implemented over Frame Relay
Permanent Virtual Circuits (PVCs) and Switched Virtual Circuits (SVCs).
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3069    McPherson       Feb 2001        VLAN Aggregation for Efficient
                                        IP Address Allocation

This document introduces the concept of Virtual Local Area Network
(VLAN) aggregation as it relates to IPv4 address allocation.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3068    Huitema         Jun 2001        An Anycast Prefix for 6to4
                                        Relay Routers

This memo introduces a "6to4 anycast address" in order to simplify the
configuration of 6to4 routers.  It also defines how this address will be
used by 6to4 relay routers, how the corresponding "6to4 anycast prefix"
will be advertised in the IGP and in the EGP.  The memo documents the
reservation by IANA (Internet Assigned Numbers Authority) of the "6to4
relay anycast prefix."  [STANDARDS TRACK]













Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 8]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3067    Arvidsson       Feb 2001        TERENA's Incident Object
                                        Description and Exchange
                                        Format Requirements

The purpose of the Incident Object Description and Exchange Format is to
define a common data format for the description, archiving and exchange
of information about incidents between CSIRTs (Computer Security
Incident Response Teams) (including alert, incident in investigation,
archiving, statistics, reporting, etc.).  This document describes the
high-level requirements for such a description and exchange format,
including the reasons for those requirements.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3066    Alvestrand      Jan 2001        Tags for the Identification of
                                        Languages

This document describes a language tag for use in cases where it is
desired to indicate the language used in an information object, how to
register values for use in this language tag, and a construct for
matching such language tags.  This document specifies an Internet Best
Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests discussion
and suggestions for improvements.


3065    Traina          Feb 2001        Autonomous System
                                        Confederations for BGP

This document describes an extension to BGP which may be used to create
a confederation of autonomous systems that is represented as a single
autonomous system to BGP peers external to the confederation, thereby
removing the "full mesh" requirement.  The intention of this extension
is to aid in policy administration and reduce the management complexity
of maintaining a large autonomous system.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3064    Foster          Feb 2001        MGCP CAS Packages

This document contains a collection of media gateway Channel Associated
Signaling (CAS) packages for R1 CAS, North American CAS, CAS PBX
interconnect as well as basic FXO support.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.









Ginoza                       Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3063    Ohba            Feb 2001        MPLS Loop Prevention Mechanism

This paper presents a simple mechanism, based on "threads", which can be
used to prevent Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) from setting up
label switched path (LSPs) which have loops.  This memo defines an
Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3062    Zeilenga        Feb 2001        LDAP Password Modify Extended
                                        Operation

This document describes an LDAP extended operation to allow modification
of user passwords which is not dependent upon the form of the
authentication identity nor the password storage mechanism used.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3061    Mealling        Feb 2001        A URN Namespace of Object
                                        Identifiers

This document describes a Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace that
contains Object Identifiers (OIDs).  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


3060    Moore           Feb 2001        Policy Core Information Model
                                        -- Version 1 Specification

This document presents the object-oriented information model for
representing policy information developed jointly in the IETF Policy
Framework WG and as extensions to the Common Information Model (CIM)
activity in the Distributed Management Task Force (DMTF).  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3059    Guttman         Feb 2001        Attribute List Extension for
                                        the Service Location Protocol

This document specifies a SLPv2 extension which allows a User Agent (UA)
to request a service's attributes be included as an extension to Service
Reply messages.  This will eliminate the need for multiple round trip
messages for a UA to acquire all service information.  [STANDARDS TRACK]









Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3058    Teiwes          Feb 2001        Use of the IDEA Encryption
                                        Algorithm in CMS

This memo specifies how to incorporate International Data Encryption
Algorithm (IDEA) into CMS or S/MIME as an additional strong algorithm
for symmetric encryption.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3057    Morneault       Feb 2001        ISDN Q.921-User Adaptation
                                        Layer

This document defines a protocol for backhauling of ISDN Q.921 User
messages over IP using the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
This protocol would be used between a Signaling Gateway (SG) and Media
Gateway Controller (MGC).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3056    Carpenter       Feb 2001        Connection of IPv6 Domains via
                                        IPv4 Clouds

This memo specifies an optional interim mechanism for IPv6 sites to
communicate with each other over the IPv4 network without explicit
tunnel setup, and for them to communicate with native IPv6 domains via
relay routers.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3055    Krishnaswamy    Feb 2001        Management Information Base
                                        for the PINT Services
                                        Architecture

This memo describes a proposed Management Information Base (MIB) for the
PSTN/Internet Interworking (PINT) Services Architecture.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3054    Blatherwick     Jan 2001        Megaco IP Phone Media Gateway
                                        Application Profile

This document specifies a particular application of the Megaco/H.248
Protocol for control of Internet telephones and similar appliances:  the
Megaco IP Phone Media Gateway.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.








Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 11]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3053    Durand          Jan 2001        IPv6 Tunnel Broker

The motivation for the development of the tunnel broker model is to help
early IPv6 adopters to hook up to an existing IPv6 network (e.g., the
6bone) and to get stable, permanent IPv6 addresses and DNS names.  The
concept of the tunnel broker was first presented at Orlando's IETF in
December 1998.  Two implementations were demonstrated during the
Grenoble IPng & NGtrans interim meeting in February 1999.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.


3052    Eder            Jan 2001        Service Management
                                        Architectures Issues and
                                        Review

The purpose of this document is to explore the problems of defining a
Service management framework and to examine some of the issues that
still need to be resolved.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3051    Heath           Jan 2001        IP Payload Compression Using
                                        ITU-T V.44 Packet Method

This document describes a compression method based on the data
compression algorithm described in International Telecommunication Union
(ITU-T) Recommendation V.44.  This document defines the application of
V.44 Packet Method to the Internet Protocol (IP) Payload Compression
Protocol (RFC 2393).  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3050    Lennox          Jan 2001        Common Gateway Interface for
                                        SIP

This document defines a SIP CGI interface for providing SIP services on
a SIP server.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.













Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 12]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3049    Naugle          Jan 2001        TN3270E Service Location and
                                        Session Balancing

This document discusses the implementation of Service Location Protocol
(SLP) and session balancing with a TN3270E emulator in a client server
implementation with a TN3270E server.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3048    Whetten         Jan 2001        Reliable Multicast Transport
                                        Building Blocks for
                                        One-to-Many Bulk-Data Transfer

This document describes a framework for the standardization of bulk-data
reliable multicast transport.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3047    Luthi           Jan 2001        RTP Payload Format for ITU-T
                                        Recommendation G.722.1

This document describes the payload format for including G.722.1
generated bit streams within an RTP packet.  Also included here are the
necessary details for the use of G.722.1 with MIME and SDP.  [STANDARDS
TRACK]


3046    Patrick         Jan 2001        DHCP Relay Agent Information
                                        Option


Newer high-speed public Internet access technologies call for a high-
speed modem to have a local area network (LAN) attachment to one or more
customer premise hosts.  It is advantageous to use the Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol (DHCP) as defined in RFC 2131 to assign customer
premise host IP addresses in this environment.  However, a number of
security and scaling problems arise with such "public" DHCP use.  This
document describes a new DHCP option to address these issues.  This
option extends the set of DHCP options as defined in RFC 2132.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3045    Meredith        Jan 2001        Storing Vendor Information in
                                        the LDAP root DSE

This document specifies two Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
attributes, vendorName and vendorVersion that MAY be included in the
root DSA-specific Entry (DSE) to advertise vendor-specific information.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.



Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3044    Rozenfeld       Jan 2001        Using The ISSN (International
                                        Serial Standard Number) as URN
                                        (Uniform Resource Names)
                                        within an ISSN-URN Namespace

This document presents how the ISSN - International Standard Serial
Number - which is a persistent number for unique identification of
serials widely recognised and used in the bibliographic world, can be
supported within the Uniform Resource Name (URN) framework as a specific
URN namespace identifier.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.


3043    Mealling        Jan 2001        The Network Solutions Personal
                                        Internet Name (PIN): A URN
                                        Namespace for People and
                                        Organizations

This document describes a Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace that is
engineered by Network Solutions, Inc. for naming people and
organizations.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.


3042    Allman          Jan 2001        Enhancing TCP's Loss Recovery
                                        Using Limited Transmit

This document proposes a new Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
mechanism that can be used to more effectively recover lost segments
when a connection's congestion window is small, or when a large number
of segments are lost in a single transmission window.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3041    Narten          Jan 2001        Privacy Extensions for
                                        Stateless Address
                                        Autoconfiguration in IPv6

This document describes an extension to IPv6 stateless address
autoconfiguration for interfaces whose interface identifier is derived
from an IEEE identifier.  [STANDARDS TRACK]











Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3040    Cooper          Jan 2001        Internet Web Replication and
                                        Caching Taxonomy

This memo specifies standard terminology and the taxonomy of web
replication and caching infrastructure as deployed today.  It introduces
standard concepts, and protocols used today within this application
domain.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3039    Santesson       Jan 2001        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Qualified
                                        Certificates Profile

This document forms a certificate profile for Qualified Certificates,
based on RFC 2459, for use in the Internet.  The goal of this document
is to define a general syntax independent of local legal requirements.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3038    Nagami          Jan 2001        VCID Notification over ATM
                                        link for LDP

This document specifies the procedures for the communication of VCID
values between neighboring ATM-LSRs that must occur in order to ensure
this property.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3037    Thomas          Jan 2001        LDP Applicability

A fundamental concept in MPLS is that two Label Switching Routers (LSRs)
must agree on the meaning of the labels used to forward traffic between
and through them.  This common understanding is achieved by using a set
of procedures, called a label distribution protocol, by which one LSR
informs another of label bindings it has made.  This document describes
the applicability of a set of such procedures called LDP (for Label
Distribution Protocol) by which LSRs distribute labels to support MPLS
forwarding along normally routed paths.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.













Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3036    Andersson       Jan 2001        LDP Specification

A fundamental concept in MPLS is that two Label Switching Routers (LSRs)
must agree on the meaning of the labels used to forward traffic between
and through them.  This common understanding is achieved by using a set
of procedures, called a label distribution protocol, by which one LSR
informs another of label bindings it has made.  This document defines a
set of such procedures called LDP (for Label Distribution Protocol) by
which LSRs distribute labels to support MPLS forwarding along normally
routed paths.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3035    Davie           Jan 2001        MPLS using LDP and ATM VC
                                        Switching


This document extends and clarifies the relevant portions of RFC 3031
and RFC 3036 by specifying in more detail the procedures which to be
used when distributing labels to or from ATM-LSRs, when those labels
represent Forwarding Equivalence Classes (FECs, see RFC 3031) for which
the routes are determined on a hop-by-hop basis by network layer routing
algorithms.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3034    Conta           Jan 2001        Use of Label Switching on
                                        Frame Relay Networks
                                        Specification

This document defines the model and generic mechanisms for Multiprotocol
Label Switching on Frame Relay networks.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3033    Suzuki          Jan 2001        The Assignment of the
                                        Information Field and Protocol
                                        Identifier in the Q.2941 Generic
                                        Identifier and Q.2957
                                        User-to-user Signaling for the
                                        Internet Protocol

The purpose of this document is to specify the assignment of the
information field and protocol identifier in the Q.2941 Generic
Identifier and Q.2957 User-to-user Signaling for the Internet protocol.
[STANDARDS TRACK]








Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3032    Rosen           Jan 2001        MPLS Label Stack Encoding

This document specifies the encoding to be used by an LSR in order to
transmit labeled packets on Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) data links, on
LAN data links, and possibly on other data links as well.  This document
also specifies rules and procedures for processing the various fields of
the label stack encoding.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3031    Rosen           Jan 2001        Multiprotocol Label Switching
                                        Architecture

This document specifies the architecture for Multiprotocol Label
Switching (MPLS).  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3030    Vaudreuil       Dec 2000        SMTP Service Extensions for
                                        Transmission of Large and
                                        Binary MIME Messages

This memo defines two extensions to the SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer
Protocol) service.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3029    Adams           Feb 2001        Internet X.509 Public Key
                                        Infrastructure Data Validation
                                        and Certification Server
                                        Protocols

This document describes a general Data Validation and Certification
Server (DVCS) and the protocols to be used when communicating with it.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3028    Showalter       Jan 2001        Sieve: A Mail Filtering
                                        Language

This document describes a language for filtering e-mail messages at time
of final delivery.  [STANDARDS TRACK]












Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3027    Holdrege        Jan 2001        Protocol Complications with
                                        the IP Network Address
                                        Translator

The purpose of this document is to identify the protocols and
applications that break with NAT enroute.  The document also attempts to
identify any known workarounds.  This document attempts to capture as
much information as possible, but is by no means a comprehensive
coverage.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.


3026    Blane           Jan 2001        Liaison to IETF/ISOC on ENUM

Working Party 1/2, of the International Telecommunication Union
Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) held a meeting of its
collaborators in Berlin Germany 19-26 October 2000.  This liaison from
WP1/2 to the IETF/ISOC conveys the understandings of the WP1/2
collaborators resulting from the discussions.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3025    Dommety         Feb 2001        Mobile IP
                                        Vendor/Organization-Specific
                                        Extensions

This document defines two new extensions to Mobile IP.  These extensions
will facilitate equipment vendors and organizations to make specific use
of these extensions as they see fit for research or deployment purposes.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3024    Montenegro      Jan 2001        Reverse Tunneling for Mobile
                                        IP, revised

This document proposes backwards-compatible extensions to Mobile IP to
support topologically correct reverse tunnels.  This document does not
attempt to solve the problems posed by firewalls located between the
home agent and the mobile node's care-of address.  [STANDARDS TRACK]













Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 18]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3023    Murata          Jan 2001        XML Media Types

This document standardizes five new media types -- text/xml,
application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-
external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd -- for use in exchanging
network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language
(XML).  This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix
'+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those
media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)
entities.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3022    Srisuresh       Jan 2001        Traditional IP Network Address
                                        Translator (Traditional NAT)

The NAT operation described in this document extends address translation
introduced in RFC 1631 and includes a new type of network address and
TCP/UDP port translation.  In addition, this document corrects the
Checksum adjustment algorithm published in RFC 1631 and attempts to
discuss NAT operation and limitations in detail.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.


3021    Retana          Dec 2000        Using 31-Bit Prefixes on IPv4
                                        Point-to-Point Links

With ever-increasing pressure to conserve IP address space on the
Internet, it makes sense to consider where relatively minor changes can
be made to fielded practice to improve numbering efficiency.  One such
change, proposed by this document, is to halve the amount of address
space assigned to point-to-point links (common throughout the Internet
infrastructure) by allowing the use of 31-bit subnet masks in a very
limited way.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3020    Pate            Dec 2000        Definitions of Managed Objects
                                        for Monitoring and Controlling
                                        the UNI/NNI Multilink Frame
                                        Relay Function

This memo defines a Management Information Base (MIB) for monitoring and
controlling a UNI/NNI Multilink Frame Relay Function as defined in Frame
Relay Forum FRF.16.  [STANDARDS TRACK]








Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3019    Haberman        Jan 2001        IP Version 6 Management
                                        Information Base for The
                                        Multicast Listener Discovery
                                        Protocol

This document defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in Internet Protocol Version 6
internets.  Specifically, this document is the MIB module that defines
managed objects for implementations of the Multicast Listener Discovery
Protocol [RFC2710].  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3018    Bogdanov        Dec 2000        Unified Memory Space Protocol
                                        Specification


This document specifies Unified Memory Space Protocol (UMSP), which
gives a capability of immediate access to memory of the remote nodes.
This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


3017    Riegel          Dec 2000        XML DTD for Roaming Access
                                        Phone Book

This document defines the syntax as well as the semantics of the
information to be included in the phone book for roaming applications.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3016    Kikuchi         Nov 2000        RTP Payload Format for MPEG-4
                                        Audio/Visual Streams

This document describes Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) payload
formats for carrying each of MPEG-4 Audio and MPEG-4 Visual bitstreams
without using MPEG-4 Systems.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3015    Cuervo          Nov 2000        Megaco Protocol Version 1.0

This document defines the protocol used between elements of a physically
decomposed multimedia gateway, i.e. a Media Gateway and a Media Gateway
Controller.  [STANDARDS TRACK]









Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3014    Kavasseri       Nov 2000        Notification Log MIB

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for logging Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP) Notifications.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3013    Killalea        Nov 2000        Recommended Internet Service
                                        Provider Security Services and
                                        Procedures

The purpose of this document is to express what the engineering
community as represented by the IETF expects of Internet Service
Providers (ISPs) with respect to security.  This document specifies an
Internet Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


3012    Perkins         Nov 2000        Mobile IPv4 Challenge/Response
                                        Extensions

In this specification, we define extensions for the Mobile IP Agent
Advertisements and the Registration Request that allow a foreign agent
to use a challenge/response mechanism to authenticate the mobile node.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3011    Waters          Nov 2000        The IPv4 Subnet Selection
                                        Option for DHCP

This memo defines a new Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
option for selecting the subnet on which to allocate an address.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3010    Shepler         Dec 2000        NFS version 4 Protocol

NFS (Network File System) version 4 is a distributed file system
protocol which owes heritage to NFS protocol versions 2 [RFC1094] and 3
[RFC1813].  Unlike earlier versions, the NFS version 4 protocol supports
traditional file access while integrating support for file locking and
the mount protocol.  In addition, support for strong security (and its
negotiation), compound operations, client caching, and
internationalization have been added.  Of course, attention has been
applied to making NFS version 4 operate well in an Internet environment.
[STANDARDS TRACK]




Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 21]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3009    Rosenberg       Nov 2000        Registration of parityfec MIME
                                        types

The RTP (Real-time Transport Protocol) payload format for generic
forward error correction allows RTP participants to improve loss
resiliency through the use of traditional parity-based channel codes.
This payload format requires four new MIME types, audio/parityfec,
video/parityfec, text/parityfec and application/parityfec.  This
document serves as the MIME type registration for those formats.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3008    Wellington      Nov 2000        Domain Name System Security
                                        (DNSSEC) Signing Authority

This document proposes a revised model of Domain Name System Security
(DNSSEC) Signing Authority.  The revised model is designed to clarify
earlier documents and add additional restrictions to simplify the secure
resolution process.  Specifically, this affects the authorization of
keys to sign sets of records.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3007    Wellington      Nov 2000        Secure Domain Name System
                                        (DNS) Dynamic Update

This document proposes a method for performing secure Domain Name System
(DNS) dynamic updates.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3006    Davie           Nov 2000        Integrated Services in the
                                        Presence of Compressible Flows


This specification describes an extension to the TSpec which enables a
sender of potentially compressible data to provide hints to int-serv
routers about the compressibility they may obtain.  [STANDARDS TRACK]















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 22]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3005    Harris          Nov 2000        IETF Discussion List Charter

The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) discussion mailing list
furthers the development and specification of Internet technology
through discussion of technical issues, and hosts discussions of IETF
direction, policy, meetings, and procedures.  As this is the most
general IETF mailing list, considerable latitude is allowed.
Advertising, whether to solicit business or promote employment
opportunities, falls well outside the range of acceptable topics, as do
discussions of a personal nature.  This document specifies an Internet
Best Current Practices for the Internet Community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.


3004    Stump           Nov 2000        The User Class Option for DHCP

This option is used by a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
client to optionally identify the type or category of user or
applications it represents.  The information contained in this option is
an opaque field that represents the user class of which the client is a
member.  Based on this class, a DHCP server selects the appropriate
address pool to assign an address to the client and the appropriate
configuration parameters.  This option should be configurable by a user.
[STANDARDS TRACK]


3003    Nilsson         Nov 2000        The audio/mpeg Media Type

The audio layers of the MPEG-1 and MPEG-2 standards are in frequent use
on the internet, but there is no uniform Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extension (MIME) type for these files.  The intention of this document
is to define the media type audio/mpeg to refer to this kind of
contents.  [STANDARDS TRACK]


3002    Mitzel          Dec 2000        Overview of 2000 IAB Wireless
                                        Internetworking Workshop

This document provides an overview of a workshop held by the Internet
Architecture Board (IAB) on wireless internetworking.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.










Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 23]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


3001    Mealling        Nov 2000        A URN Namespace of Object
                                        Identifiers

This document describes a Uniform Resource Names (URN) namespace that
contains Object Identifiers (OIDs).  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.


3000    Reynolds        Nov 2001        Internet Official Protocol
                                        Standards

This memo contains a snapshot of the state of standardization of
protocols used in the Internet as of October 25, 2001.  It lists
official protocol standards and Best Current Practice RFCs; it is not a
complete index to the RFC series.  The latest version of this memo is
designated STD 1.  [STANDARDS TRACK]

Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

Author's Address

   Sandy Ginoza
   University of Southern California
   Information Sciences Institute
   4676 Admiralty Way
   Marina del Rey, CA 90292

   Phone:  (310) 822-1511

   EMail: ginoza@isi.edu



















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 24]

RFC 3099                  Summary of 3000-3099


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















Ginoza                       Informational                     [Page 25]

